Good evening everyone. Community KIT Kharagpur welcomes you to the first day of Internship Training Week. I, Sarthak Yadav, along with Aditya Chawal, shall be the host for this panel discussion. Today we will get insights into a rather important and versatile profile of finance. We hope this discussion addresses most of your queries and provides you with all essential details. We will also be having a Q&A session at the end to address all your queries. In today's session, we have with us a very qualified set of panelists. I take immense pleasure in introducing them to you. First, we have Mr. Ujwal Anil Chikane, who is currently interning at DSP Mutual Funds. Would you please introduce yourself, Ujwal? Yeah, so thanks for introducing me. So myself, Ujwal, and I'm going to fifth year, hopefully, and only in five years, integrated course of economics. I'm working in fixed income department of DSP Mutual Fund. And yeah, so doing work on something on corporate spread. And that's all about myself. Thank you, Ishwar. So next we have Ms. Nimisha Gupta, interning at Deutsche Bank. Nimisha, could you tell us a bit about yourself? Hello, everyone. My name is Nimisha Gupta. I'm a fourth year undergraduate now from the Department of Mechanical Engineering and I'm interning at Deutsche Bank and my profile is also fixed income like OJULS. Thank you, Nimisha. First, starting with the discussion, I would like to congratulate the panelists for their amazing accomplishments. We look forward to learn a lot from you all. Starting the panel discussion, the first question is, choosing a field of interest, which may be with you throughout your career, seems to be a very crucial decision. What inspired you to choose finance or other profiles? Okay, so for me, so as you all have just mentioned that I'm from economics department. So for me, I've been taught few courses of economics finance. For me to go into finance field is much easier to go in software field. So my first point is that it's not that I've only chosen finance profile and rest are not. So I have preparing for I know some bit of data, machine learning, finance and consult. So for like, so for the placement is different thing that you are targeting only one profile. But for intern, I think everyone has almost two or three profiles in their hand, they're just exploring in what field to go in which field to go. So I would recommend don't worry if you are not like you don't have any one field to go, it's totally fine. worry if you are not like you don't have any one field to go it's totally fine so also i was preparing for CFA in my summer break so yeah that's all i went into finance which we would like to hear your views too yeah sure so just adding to it like for me i did not have any specific like financial background so the way I chose the profiles I would sit for in CDC was mostly about the skills I had at that time like I knew I was good at problem solving I knew I was good at like guesstimate etc. I knew so for me I knew that okay I these are the three particular profiles I would target or the companies I would target for like those could be any three or like I won't say this go for three it could be like whatever profile you have a second mind at the starting of your preparation period those are the profiles you think you could be interested in you think okay this is something you would like to explore etc. because I don't think anyone who has like until and unless you go and work there you would know to explore etc. because I don't think anyone who has like until and unless you go and work there you would know like what the work is going to look like so you probably won't have an idea of the work so the way I thought was one I just crossed out the things I definitely didn't want to do at that time and secondly it was about like okay I knew I can probably code I can probably solve problems etc. and yeah that's how i thought about it i didn't do one point like in intern if you're thinking about if you're even have a small doubt that i can go into finance or have an interest should definitely explore so for intern the firms and company we don't expect much that you showed me everything about time even if you know a basic idea if you are able to show the interest in finance it is good to go so thank you for your valuable inputs moving on Aditya let's move forward to the next question what all top companies offer to you and what kind of roles they offer? Okay, so in the finance, if you are particular about finance, so there are many roles like I can tell about equity research is there, there is investment banking role, there is sales and trading role, there is quant analyst role and then yeah, there is only a global market soul for Nomura then there is a sub category of analyst where every role stand so there are few major profiles like just i told you quant fixed income investment banking analyst so this all are the roles offered by various companies for IITs there is no like if you want to go into pure finance, the role is very less, like very few, only few firms come, going to take you to a finance. So there's always a mix of quant, machine learning, data analysis with you. Talking about top companies, there is definitely Deutsche Bank, Waltham Stanley, JPMC, Nomura, BSC Mutual Funds. Then if you mix a quant or data AIML, then I would say then HDIP is also there. But yeah, again, it's a mix of AI/ML role with finance. Yeah, these are all the top companies we're talking about for the finance role in Indonesia. Nimisha, we would also like your opinion on this. Nimisha we would also like your opinion on this oh yeah pretty much the same I don't have anything to add like those other so as Ujwal already mentioned that usually these companies don't look for like core finance types the roles are usually like quantitative roles etc. for because we have an IIT in background if you call that so the roles would be mostly like part of an analyst with the profile if you see the work and all that would be mostly quant or data related etc. So I don't think any other even JPMC I think the role which they offered on campus was quant based but however there are options to apply off campus if you want to for other roles. apply off campus if you want to for other roles. I think Nomura is a bit of pure fan of the global market. Except that, everyone will ask you a prop stats question. Everyone will ask you a con. Some sort of con. Because they are expecting it as they are from IIT. Thank you for your valuable insight. Now addressing a major concern among the students. There is a lot of confusion among the students about the generalized selection process for the companies, the number of rounds and the nature of companies. View interviewed. Okay, so I will just give you some first I will give a just a broad overview how the general selection process is after company. So for every company there is mostly three types of selection route first CV selection, then there will be a test, then there may be a GD, then there is a technical interview, and there is a HR interview. This all are four types of test interview which they can take. Mostly out of four every company has three. If you talk about Nomura that first they have cv shortlisting then they will have a Group Discussion (GD) then they will have a technical interview then they have an HR we talk about Deutsche Bank then first they have i think psychometric test first they have a cv shortlisting then psychometric test then technical then HR Nimisha would be better to tell about that is some Deutsche Bank. Yeah, yeah. From, if you're talking about JPMC, they have some sort of aptitude test. Again, the first is CV, then aptitude test, then technical, then action. So most of them have some sort of plus minus one or two. If someone will add JT, someone will remove aptitude test instead. So everyone has this sort of agenda selection procedure. So does group discussion have questions topic regarding finance only or others? Depends on company to company but yeah for intern the only company which conducted group discussion was Nomura and their topic was generally related to current situation of like for my time the topic was repo rate, how repo rate is increasing, how it will affect the economy. What do you think current next 10 years of India will be, how it will be lost. Some sort of related to finance, the current topics which are currently booming are the hot topics of finance industry. You should have some ongoing knowledge about what is happening. It will not only happen in GD, it will help you in a technical interview the HR interview they show your interview like how much you are inclined towards them because everyone I will I'm if I'm honest everyone is preparing for finance but the rules are very less as compared to the number of students who are interested so to get edge you should you should be able to show your interest. This is one of the reasons. More or less, they are looking for eagerness of the participant, right? Yeah. So, moving on to the next question. We all know how important building a good CV is for showcasing our skills and achievements and thus getting a good internship. Can the panelists provide some valuable insights on building a good cv for finance profile and also are online courses worth enrolling um okay so for this like the properly how do you start has a cv portal opened yet which i don't know I'm not sure so not a so yeah so i think for these uh non-tech roles there are like some key things you need to keep in mind while building your cv first like in when the portal opens you guys would be able to see like there are different sections on your cv on the top the section which remains fixed is your branch and your CGPA and your like school percentage etc. that you cannot shift around the rest of the sections are very flexible so you can move around as per your convenience so I'll just tell you like what are the different sections and just go like to what do you think what are the things you should keep in mind one is about your awards and achievements one is about your internships one is about your projects conferences extracurriculars PORs and maybe some skills etc. so from the finance point of view I think one you need to have achievements right because you know that the population versus the roles ratio it's very less right so there if you want a short list you need to have some sort of achievements which would be able to put you apart from the rest of the crowd. That's one thing. You could have any achievements. And if those achievements are aligned with your finance, which show your interest in finance, then that adds to it. That's one thing. The second thing is about interest. I think a lot of people do have, what do you say have been doing internships etc. so uh people usually prefer to put in internships over like depending on like the quality of the work you have done if you think that your work in projects has been better than people put projects first so that is one thing like you can you need to have like your internships like um whatever work you have done there I'll probably tell you the details I'll cover later but then internships after that projects you would have done research projects with other universities or any sort of project you think or a self-project also i think this is something i also read like if you think you have picked up you have a good self-project etc. which might be related to finance or data or you think could help that's something you can put as well and then I think next thing is uh PORs they do help uh I think not in comparison to consult probably yes the PORs aren't that important as you would think in consult however for finance they would help you like have a unique leverage so having your POS there and then extracurriculars which could reflect your interest etc. so that is something and I think one thing to keep in mind just keep your CV within one page so usually people do end up dropping their courses etc. unless if you think you're you have a lot of content so you can skip that yeah that's like the broad overview of what your cv should look like and yeah so whatever internships and projects are there make sure that they show that okay you have some sort like they show your interest in finance basically like if you put a put an intern which was done in a consulting firm etc. so there's a good chance you might get questioned oh your cv is probably like consult base etc. so that is something that is another thing yeah which we can add to yeah so like i would say the most critical element for a strong cv is a your definitely cg second thing is like your brand name if you have a good brand name intern in a CV, before a CDC internship, it will definitely help. Okay, so getting a CV selected for your favorite or your dream firm is a very subjective thing. There are a few elements, like you can maximize the chances of getting selected. I've seen people having 8.99 points pointers and still they are not getting selected. I've seen people who have a good intern but still not getting selected. You have to keep balance between two, three things the first is definitely a cg a cg should be above eight then there is a good brand name intern then there is a POR as Nimisha said PR helps but yeah as compared to consult the scale is i would say less okay so PORs (Position of Responsibilities) help and also PORs help in few firms like i think Deutsche Bank prioritized PORs no more i guess some sort of this is very subjective but yeah good brand name good cg will definitely help it will help in every firms second thing if you are having a good project the third thing if you have a prior certification CFA and FM then your chances of like if you have three things good cg a good past intern a good project and CFA-FM certification then your chances of a cv getting selected is multi-folds as compared to those who don't have so these are the critical element for a strong saving and rest of the rest of the things are covered by animation thank you that's provided yeah just one more thing that so like both of us told like there are like multiple sections so try to diversify your cg or sorry cv because let's say if there is a project section and you have like you think that okay you can keep on adding two three projects there should be a spike in each particular section. So let's say if you have done some really good projects and you think like, okay, I might do one more project as well, that still counts as a one spike. So try to diversify in like different sections. That would be, yeah. All right. Thank you. That provided a lot of understanding. Building on that idea, what are the fundamental requirements for landing an internship in finance profile? I think it's already covered. And what do you mean by fundamental requirements? Like you should have a knowledge of finance. You should have a good aptitude. You should be able to communicate properly you should have good communication skills you should have good cg but this question with some like yeah this all three four things are the fundamental requirements and if you have if you don't have any one of the things you can compensate by other three other factors which I told earlier. The most fundamental requirement is your willingness to learn, willingness to work, willingness to get the intern. This is the most important thing which I think everyone should have. Animesh, if you have anything to add. Yeah, I don't think there is some hard criteria or something that you need to have this particular thing to get a finance intern if you if you just prepare your cv well and you have like the basic requirements then i think you'll be good to go but then yeah there's nothing as such that you very permanent okay you need this thing for sure to get a finance intern that's not the case definitely and like which will said like i think this is something if you talk about fundamental requirements i think one thing which you should keep in mind is cg like a lot of firms like they do have a cutoff at eight and they like they prefer to have a plus at least so that would be a safe CGPA yeah that's it. Thank you. Moving forward, what can be the best way to prepare for general aptitude and probability and statistics questions? Like you just said, that most of the companies have that in the interview process. Yeah, not only interview, some firm will, like every firm will ask if they have to, they will definitely ask a question of general aptitude, power bank stats, because they don't expect that much of finance but yeah like in that uh cv shortlist now resume what we call like the JNF or NF they won't write that a pro have finance knowledge is required but yeah they will love definitely also about preparation of general aptitude and problem starts it's same for every profile you have one problem start schools in the first semester i think second semester then again it have in your third or fourth semester it's good enough for a basic understanding then you should have practice of problem stats there is two books 50 challenging problems of prop and start that level of questions are only asked in interview that 50 challenging problems say that test method because it's too hard no one will be able to solve in the right test and there is a second problem 50 heard one straight I guess yeah so there is two chapters which you have to do for general aptitude this will be covered by like this two will be like this very top high level books if you want to just do a general aptitude you can pick on one card book it will help in test but if you are talking about interview then heard one straight and 50 challenging problems will be much more relevant for your interviews for test you can do questions from as i told cat books in general aptitude then there is a third website i guess uh brainstorm yeah brainstorm is also there you can refer that site there is i think four levels of question easy medium and difficult you can go through easy medium and you can so on you can left difficult totally everything depends on time if you have great time if you have much more time you can do everything but i don't think it's possible to do everything so priority is everything like whichever you want to do but yeah would you like to add something on yeah, I think those are the three standard resources to prepare for general aptitude, etc. And for me also, mechanical engineering doesn't have prop stats, so I just went through the notes which my batchmates had for prop stats and that too I went through in the last few days, because I was my focus was on other things so that was something I play on like I kept for later and those were like the only things I went through and apart from this yeah the other thing which they ask apart from the general aptitude and props uh prop stats are the puzzles etc. so those you can practice either from the books or from geeks for geeks and like I just scrolled through like random puzzle questions. And it's not like very advanced level puzzles. If you just have like a decent knowledge or just an intuition, etc. I think you would be able to get through the puzzles. They aren't very tough or so like they're like the same level puzzles which a lot of societies etc. ask in the um GDs etc. right so that's one thing and uh regarding the prioritization i think so general aptitude and props charge types questions are asked in almost a lot of companies like um be it SDE be it data etc so they do ask all these quant types quantitative questions etc. so i think it's a good it's a good thing if you um if you just keep in touch with it like throughout your two-month prep at least you could keep practicing like when i was prepping a lot of my batchmates especially the ones who were preparing for data etc. they used to solve these things on a daily basis especially the 50 challenging problems if you solve it properly then i think you will be very well prepared for that so i think that's uh that's it but if you are just majorly focused towards non-tech etc. so i don't think you need to um give like that much amount of that much amount of time to this particular section you can prioritize between the different roles. Okay, one more thing I have to add. Those who don't have prof stats course in the virtual semester, they have. I don't remember which semester. So you can check out stats 101. I think it's from Stanford or Harvard University. It's entirely 38 or 39 videos or playlists. You can refer them. It's good enough. You can have basic ideas of what normal distribution, what is conditional. Yeah, I think I went through the videos which you're recommending. I think there are some short notes or a PDF also. I went through that PDF. I went through that PDF only. Like, I didn't have that much time. So, yeah, those are really good. And, like very it covers everything and what would be the ideal time to start focusing on them according to you okay very responsive well that was really informative uh moving forward that was really informative moving forward. How relevant certificates like CFN and FRM are to this profile and what are the advantages and potential challenges they present during the interview process and the shortlisting process? Okay, so like from my second year, I'm holding like for my third year, like having a certification is like double sword. It will help you to get shortlisted. But yeah, definitely they will expect you that you should have a knowledge of CF and FRM certification. But I would say you like, don't think about the negative. I feel like they will ask you much harder question as compared to those who don't have. It will definitely help you. So I can give you one stat. Like having a certification will, as I told earlier also, it will increase your chances multiple to get selected for the interviews. Then how you perform in an interview totally depends on that. Then certification don't help you. But for getting certified, it will help. Second thing is, like if you talk about the company like BlackRock, almost two to three people out of like almost more than 75% are those who have a certification to them. It was a coincidence, but we can see stats, like stats supports the people who have CF and FRM. And third thing is there is a trend in the entire campus. I guess everyone is doing CFL level one or FRM level one. So now I think it's more than a like necessity i don't know the next upcoming internship placement or season will tell how much it helped because almost i can everyone I've received almost six seven queries from different students like how to prepare for CFA it's too much if you're talking about like if you're talking about last two three years only like two to three people in the batch of economics are doing CFA but now it's increased almost three to four times so your relevance is increasing both point is preparing for CFA or FM before your internship will help you to get knowledge you will know about fixed income you will know about portfolio management you will know about accounting balance sheet income statement you know about economics you know about count you know like you will have an idea of every different phase so definitely it will help you to also give your interview better yeah so done from my side you wish to have anything to end yeah so i think as usual emphasize uh having a certification is a huge boost on your cv like so i don't know someone told me that like let's say if you are lacking in some section then having a certification like CFA or FRM does compensate a lot for it but now given given that trend I'm not sure how much weightage it would hold in the upcoming season but coming to like people who already have CFA frm on their cvs one advice would be be thorough with the fundamentals because the people who would be asking you questions they know what CFA frm is pretty well and they know like how you would have prepared etc so obviously like they're not going to ask you some very advanced level questions which uh where you might get stuck which is very core finance that won't be asked for sure but what will be asked like it's like very fundamental questions like for example i had a project which had a finance jargon in it a fine it dealt with a finance term etc and they knew what exact question to ask so whatever you're putting on your CV if you're putting on some jargons or if you're which in your in like in your project or you're putting CFA just be very sure that you know the fundamentals quite well because you would be questioned based on what is there on your CV, right? So if you have CFA, they'll be expecting you to know at least like the fundamentals pretty well. So yeah, that's it. That offered valuable insights. Thank you. That offered valuable insights. Thank you. Given the time left, how should one prioritize between self projects, internships and preparation? Also, can you provide the roadmap for the last few months? Okay, so for like, there is straight away answer internship is much greater than greater than greater than self project is much greater than greater than preparation, but prepare like, self project internship is answer, preparation, you have to do anything like, you can't say I will do internship and project, I will not do preparation, then it will be done. That doesn't go into work. So preparation you have to do anyway. But internship is much greater than self-projects focus on internship focus on getting a good brand name focus on getting a good intern where you have done something related to finance yeah i think that's actually very important so whatever internship or projects you are going to do that would hold a lot of weightage especially in comparison to the prep you would be doing like let's say there are people who would be going through a lot of finance modules etc finance prep material however whatever work you would have done in your internships etc that would be like the questions which would be asked they would be testing the knowledge which you have applied or which you would have used in your internship so it's possible that you could go through a lot of reading material on finance and that might not prove useful so because that happened for me I did not have like any separate into a separate prep for intern right so whatever prep I had was related to the project or slash internship i was doing so make sure that whatever internship you are doing you have like all the necessary knowledge about it all the necessary prep material which is needed for that internship that would be enough yeah oh one more point i have to add preparation like preparation you have to do like if you want to intern you have to do preparation. Everyone can fake as well. Internship provides credibility to your employer that he has worked in a corporate company, he has experience, he is trustworthy, he is credible. So that's the thing in preparation you have to direct. So most of the questions which are going you should know how to go through, how to drive your interview. If you have projects or even internship then the questions which will be asked is related to your internship and project in most of the time again there is an outline they may directly ask you some but most of the time they will ask the question related to your internship or self-project so if you have internship and project you have a driving force you can go through like isolated question i will go through all the topics and it will help you much better but it doesn't mean that you don't have to do preparation yeah and also please don't take your internship like lightly whatever intern you're doing like just think you just need it for the cv etc. because even if you have a decent intern and the work which you have done there isn't that great or something which you cannot justify in your interview then it wouldn't be of great importance so try to just make sure that the work you're doing also is credible and holds importance yeah uh whatever work you are doing in intern do it with sincerity have some like goal and point in your inter take currently enter in the inter you will go first literally you will go first so be prepared for that do some good work put some good work that was very informative thank you moving ahead many students are concerned about yeah so many more students are concerned about what the recruiter expect from us so based on your experience can you provide some insight as to what level of expertise the company expect from us um i don't think the companies have a hardcore like expectation that okay the person needs to know this xyz information however they expect you to know whatever stuff you have on your cv pretty like very thoroughly so like the like that if let's say there are three rounds two rounds may they do grill you properly on your cv because every person has like a different cv different intern so they cannot have a uniform metric that we'll ask like proper like these standard questions but coming to uh cv grilling uh those in in those they like they expect you to know the basics they expect you to know like whatever things or like you let a lot of people do like in order to make it sound very fancy they do use very fancy words etc like this is the work we have done so let's say even if you have put a word volatility on your uh cv you get grilled like very nicely for like how it's going to look like like they'll not just ask you what you did in your intern they'll expect you to have like the fundamental understanding of how that one jargon word works etc so that is the basic requirement they don't expect you to know anything fancy they just expect you to know what is there on your cv so yeah so adding to the point like uh the question is expected like even if i was sitting at your place like definitely have a question like what they will ask so definitely first thing it will help you go through your CV whatever anything above word or anything in finance related kuch bhi tumhari CV pe dikh hai go through it have a thorough concept about what are the topics what do you mean by thing they will grill you in and out whatever is written in your CV. Second thing is whatever company you are preparing whatever roles you are preparing for they have a I think about their job description go through the job description some rules have a specific job requirement like they should you should know time series modeling because of finance and data analytics mostly your time econometrics you should know econometrics or uh because in finance if you want to do data analysis time series is one of the most important thing like a finance data for time series for yourself so depends on job go through the job description whatever rules they have written if they need any specific requirements go through it again some profile like there is special requirement of you should know sql sql you should know how to code in sql you should know how to python then you should go through the basic topics of that topic. Or some if some companies are coming for portfolio management. Go through the topic for portfolio management. Read the job description. It will help. Two things. Go through the CV. Go through the job description. And third thing is ask from the past interns. What they have asked. Call your alums. Call the ex-intern. Like Kapuchaka. Get. Write down all the questions questions i think these three things are enough or if you get any idea like there are also some books which were not book specific but yeah there are blogs i think we publish good like i was i was also part of communicate so yeah we publish good amount of blogs you can go through all those blogs and see what type of questions are asked in the interviews go through that for these three things cv job description and the past question which they have asked in the interview yeah i think you can expect some standard actual questions also which like you can prepare in advance and like you would be interviewing and let's say if you're interviewing more than one company like make sure that you know the company's values etc so so that you know your answers also sort of align with it so that is one thing you can keep in mind right so for some of the answer for this question to like have a clear and clips cv and one should know what they're applying for right thank you that was really insightful And one should know what they're applying for. Thank you. That was really insightful. It's time to turn our attention to what we should not do and how to avoid these mistakes at the last moment. Can you please share your experience? Okay. So the first thing you should not do, like some students, like some of my friends get unexpected shortlist on day one. So what they do, we just gave for the namesake. Let's see for the experience. Don't undermine yourself, don't be underconfident. Think yourself that you are capable enough, you have prepared the entire last three months for this internship and are good enough to crack don't be under confident don't show don't be able to make judge the interviewer that you are under confident if if you own another thing that you are not good enough for the role then they are not going to select you so first of all i think be confident trust on yourself that you are prepared and you are able to crack don't just give प्रोस्ट ऑन यूज प्रोपर किया है एबल टू डोंट जब चेवल अंदर सेक ऑफ इंटरव्यू देवन तो आना भी नहीं देखा तो टोंट बिलाइट थे टेकन थिंग इज ऑफ चूट यू नॉट डू इस प्रेपेरिंग फॉर 22 मैंने प्रोपाइल वाले बैक रब सॉफ्टवेयर पर कर रहे हो या डू इन पर एनिलेटिक्ट या डू इन पर पैन एंड या डू इन पर संसॉयल डू आईड विंग पर प्रोडक्ट यह मत करो you are doing cross product. At least have 1-2 profiles cut it out. Have entire 3 years to figure it out. This is not happening. So at least have a profile 2-3. It's very difficult to get shortlisted as I understand totally. But don't be totally blind following every profile in every way. Yeah third thing, these are the tools from my side which you should not do yeah i think the first thing which you said is really important that just don't run after profiles if you think your batchmates are doing so because like leave that you might not have interest or something on the final day of interviews or during the test etc it will become a huge chaos for you guys like managing different company test or prioritizing different company interviews so it's better to have like selected profiles just because you have been preparing for a good amount of time instead of like a lot of time it happens right you just start applying for all the companies without even checking the role or without even checking like this is something you might want to do so just have a very very clear idea that this is the role you want to go in it's okay it's fine if you want to keep a particular profile as a backup but don't go beyond like let's say two or three because it's very difficult to manage you wouldn't know like what to prioritize when shortlist come you wouldn't know like how to just go ahead and just keep preparing for all these different tests and eventually you end up like sub-performing like at all the tests so it's better to have a limited number of profiles and secondly don't freak out like because I know that as and when it just keeps approaching, you're very likely to freak out. But just be confident that, okay, you have done whatever prep or resources you had. You have prepared the standard material which you could have. You have done, like, whatever you could have. And then just go and give it your best shot. Otherwise, it's fine. You can still go out for other options. Just don't pressurize yourself into applying for all the roles. That's the worst thing. One more thing you can do. So, if you want to apply, I would say, apply in every firm so that you don't miss any of the firm or company. But after getting shortlisted, if you have 2-3 shortlists or 4-5 shortlists in day 1, sit and prioritize. एवरी फर्म फॉर डेट यू डोंट मिस एनी अवधा फर्म और कंपनी बट आफ्टर गेटिंग शॉटलिस्टेड फिर आप टू शॉटलिस्ट और पूर्व शॉटलिस्ट डेवन सिट एंड प्रयोरिटेज विकिस को प्रयोरिटेज करने अपने एवरी फर्म पर प्रयोरिटेज बिकॉज तीन चार शॉटलिस्ट है और फिर बिकॉज समझ द फॉर मिल कैप्शन फॉर लेकिन देवल टेक यू एक टू टू ट्री राउंड्स ऑफ एन आर एन एंटायर डेविल पीज अपने सिंगल फर्म तो विपर एट एडिव एक्सर नाव कैनी और समझ rounds of half an hour then entire day will be just wasted for single firm so we prioritize and sometimes you will regret that you didn't apply for the company maybe i will get selected there for sake of your that you have to apply but make sure to prioritize this company because if you have two three shortlist especially for day one day two day three afterwards after day three it's quite easy to manage because you won't get that much you know many number of shortlist as compared to day one day two day three day four but for this initial day be sure to make priorities yeah definitely like because on day one or day two or whatever day you're giving the interview the scene is going to look like you running from one end of Nalanda to the other end. And it's very difficult, even for the people who are coordinating, to just make sure that you get interviewed there too, or here too, because it's very chaotic. Everyone wants to have their preferential interview first. So make sure, I mean, sometimes it happens, even if you have shortlist and if you don't prioritize it properly you're very likely that okay you go you give the you give the wrong interview first and then you end up suffering so make sure that you know very clearly that you're okay not attending a particular interview because you know that this is the company I have prioritized like so that's something to keep in mind for the final day that was quite in fact cool thank you so like both of you emphasize on internship a lot like they are very important so uh how should one compensate if he or she does not have any prior intention what would your guidance for them take a finance profile we should have at least something which is very interesting this is quite logical i think so if you don't have prior experience then do project related to finance don't have project related to finance do some certification or do some online courses like you have to show any hour by any means that you are interested in finance so the best way is to do internship in related to field of finance but if you are not able to get the internship you must again understand it's difficult not everyone gets that try to do certification also under certification costly, try to do project under professor. Do something, take part in some competition related to finance. Or do financial engineering. If you are part of economics school, then yeah, financial engineering economics. That will also help. But, yeah, so these are the few which by which you can come from yeah i think that's probably the best you can do right now like let's say if you have one month or plus whatever is remaining right now and you are finding it difficult to get an internship like a proper corporate still keep trying like maybe if you can get an internship because it you it has a certain importance on your CV like right but if you cannot get that self-projects are the next thing to go for because when I was prepping for it I just I had a self-project I thought like okay this might not be of that much importance because the general perception is that okay internships projects which you do in other universities hold importance which they do however the self-project if that is something directly linked to what the role is asking for they do end up asking questions and if you are able to create an impression there then that's it you have cracked the code but apart from that as ajwul said um certifications although i'm not sure like if you can get the CFA certification etc because it would take time if you start if you already have CFA certification then I think that is a good compensation because I think CFA certification is difficult but you can have a parent you can try for other certifications which might come on time and because in when you would be uploading your CV or even the CV portal opens and and you're uploading this exercise things you have done you need to upload the required proofs etc for it as well so just don't think you can put anything and then get away with it usually you just mentioned the financial engineering so can you just tell us a bit about how much effect it can have on a CV especially for the people who are not from economics course okay so like if I have two CV same CV everything is then I will definitely check course company prioritize the people from financial engineering because they think they have done some courses related to finance and it shows the interest of candidate it is a candidate from a financial engineering background is much more relevant than a student from other engineering branches so that's how it helps and if you want to go into financial engineering then you can definitely take financial engineering as a like 50% course. like if they're cost without it how help like definitely if you are done the courses of finance then it will help right thank you that provided great clarity so now we are taking up the questions in the chat box audience please feel free to post any unresolved query we'll be taking them one by one also if anyone have any query they can raise their hand. I think someone asked about CGPA cutoff. So I think almost for every company, just not finance, they want a CG8+. Like the companies which are open for CGPAs, they might not say, okay, we have a hard cut off however they do prefer so it's better if you have a plus but if you don't then you need to compensate from other sections like try having spikes in your achievements or try having spikes in your internships projects extracurriculars etc okay so for CGg like i would say i guess compared to my batches in my junior batch of this the average cg is quite low like it's almost 0.1.2 less than my batch of my single batches there is a drop so above 8 is good enough if you have a above 8 plus then there's no worry if there's no thing to worry about i wanted if they are less than 8 i've seen people about 7.8 7.9 7.7 even even 7.6 getting selected but they are outliers not my point they are outliers if we're talking about general having good having 8 plus is good enough to go so yeah someone asked how important is cp for controls i don't think that's relevant to the session but still i think it's very important you will probably have another session for that so they can emphasize on it better lower department face a greater challenge no i don't think so the um what do you say companies have a short list or cut off on the basis of departments yeah i don't i haven't seen um So for first year vacation there is zero the virus city you can trade for you can do you can improve your problem starts if and done in a second semester sorry if you have done like if you don't have good problem starts you can cover problems start in first year vacation you can do a research intern in IIM and the IASB or anything in any IIMs or any foreign university you can do a research intern but to know how much interested you are in finance I think so entire campus started with zero diversity so we can someone asked like about like how to apply for internships okay so one thing is i think the best thing is through linkedin like cold mailing vc firms etc like that's how a majority of people i know get vc interns which do help quite a lot so that's one way you could try out would you if you want to add to that yeah for like uh so reach out to our alums. Like getting internship in finance field is much more difficult as compared to AIMLR software. So take help of your alum, reach out to them. Definitely you won't get a great stipend there, but having a brand name and start to learn their work. Alums, LinkedIn, cold mailing, these are all things. Yeah, someone asked about um whoever has asked about extracurricular activities so see they're not going to differentiate based on like what activity matters more the place where your extracurricular activities come into places one pur which we already talked about second is like the skills right let's say if you have been working in a particular club or society and you have gained certain problem solving skills which you could implement or or implement or just show it in the interview because uh as far as i remember from my interview there was a question about guesstimate and if you know like simple problem solving skills like how to think on the spot etc um and as as much in depth you can think about then that surely helps so in that way your extracurricular activities would help you someone has asked that people generally tell you to prepare for tech profiles before finance when people start exploring so do we get sufficient time later to build finance profile what are you using that um i think it depends on the company you're applying for like but Deutsche Bank as far as i know there was a psychometric test and then there was um the sorry a psychometric test before the show after the shortlist and the test didn't require you to prepare as such like from the point of view of like quantitative problems or prop stats that test was purely theoretical and very analytical like you can solve it if you have good yeah so if you uh if you know that okay finance is the only thing only profile you're going to apply for then it makes sense that um you give a lot of time to it but even if you compare tech and finance prep tech usually it's very CP heavy. So it will require a huge amount of time. So I think you can go ahead and prep for tech, but on the side, make sure you're interning, whatever internal project you're doing or reading up on internet, et cetera, about finance. That is something that doesn't get compromised. I think you can. And because in non-tech profiles, the major thing is CV building and that you can efficiently do once the portal opens so yeah you can keep you will have sufficient time in terms of that it's one more thing i have to add for tech profiles like getting in internship and tech profile through cdc or non-cdc is much more easier than getting an intern in finance because in charge companies but initial days may like as compared to the number of offers or intern through tech is much more it's much more greater greater than as compared to finance therefore all the generally it is advised to prepare for tech profiles before finance because tech is much more easier to get in turn second it's much more it is much more time taking process for cp because you can't learn cp into in one month or 1.15 months but if you are if you prepare very early hard or work very hard you can prepare for finance rules in 1.5 months someone asked about what to do in second year i think whatever things we covered in the session so far which are a requirement or which add a spike to your cv i think that is something you could start working if you know already that this is something you want to go for then you can already just start working on it that is more or less what you can go for in second year but yeah selection process for dsp so for dsp it is uh the first round was cv like cv screening then they relieve the short lift then yeah first technical round interview and then again the second round was also technical interview for two rounds of technical interview plus cv short history i want to ask what do you exactly do in your respective interns like you can give them some idea so yeah it's not uh i i don't know like whether i should tell or not but i can give you an idea because there's some compliance or something okay i will tell so my work is related to corporate spread corporate spread is uh yield between what you are getting in corporate bond minus what yield or what return you are getting in government bonds so i have to figure out the water factors which are affecting these two yields and what the difference between that maybe inflation can maybe report maybe os maybe supply of the bonds so I have to figure it out. This is the summary. Again, there is deep work inside which we will get to after getting it. I don't think I should also talk about it. I'll surely end up in some compliance problem. I think I've told you everything about my internment. How to get research intern in IIM? So yeah, very easy. Like if you talk about any senior, there is simple process called mailing. There is mail id, like you can search the website of IIM Ahmedabad, then there's faculty repo or repository of faculty, then where you get every mail id of every professor. Take out the mail ideas do some research on what research topic they are working on mail them insisting that you are interpreting whatever research topic whatever research they are doing so maintain like give again this session will be of then become a how to code mail but i'm giving a summary so uh include be a make a personalized mail for every professor you can use there is some like what there is some water extension if you know through which you can have a personalized mails write down how much your interest in and of the cold million could you give insights on how to maintain contact with place common internship days and how is it important yeah so i was a part of placement committee team uh i think nimisha is also a part he was cdc department representative and i was a place come so i think we help every student in whatever ways we can if you want to know anything about internship at each day you can check the notice board uh every information is be relieved whatever thing like which public should know are released to notice board you can check if you have any doubt you can reach out to any of the place come of your department or anything you don't need any connection if you reach out to any placecom all the contact details for placecoms are given in cdc effect just randomly text out text them key you need if this help or you need to know about this info they will eager to help you out and how is it important just it is not important if you don't have any contact with it's just go through the notice board you will get every every information. Yeah. And even on the day of interviews, you would have POCs allotted to you who would be there for you. So you don't need to worry or as such just go on making contacts. They're there for you and you would have a separate POC for your interviews, etc. So you could reach out to them in case of any issues you might have on the day of interviews. Yeah. How viable is to have a co-profiler's backup plan? I will say, if you are targeting finance, have one backup profile. So everyone who is preparing for consult have backup profile as finance or product. Everyone who is preparing for software has backup profile as analyst or data science role. So, backup should be done. Because intern has no guarantee whether you will get an intern or not. everyone who is preparing for software has backup profilers, analysts or data science so backup should be done because intern has no guarantee whether you will get an intern or not and even in core you need to have like a certain CG cut off and all so if you are okay that you are just in that phase we are ready to explore you are ready to just go around and just see what different profiles might look like it's not a bad idea at all. Go for it, prepare well what your core profile is going to look like and then it's not a bad idea at all. What companies that do not have coding around? So, financial companies, I don't think have proper coding around as software companies have. Because financial companies don't have to do coding. Some companies, I think, again, if the role is related to finance plus analytics, then they will ask you Python, basic Pandas, basic NumPy, but if you're talking about Deutsche Bank, NORA, JPMG, even my DSP, they won't ask you coding. But you should know how to manipulate, how to play with data basic data structures right so panelists have answered most of the questions thank you for the meaningful and enlightening discussion so we are almost at the end of the event panelists would you like to add any other point that you think was not covered in the discussion or give any advice in general that would help okay so i would say before your internship send your vv to every senior not every senior which was senior you trust to go through your cv make out point out the mistakes which you have done don't have any grammatical errors or any identification error or any spacing errors in your cv your cv should be perfect perfectly aligned or not have any grammatical errors or mistakes it should be a well-defined cv so send your cv to review second thing is have as many mock interviews as you can before your internship i think again communicate conducts mock interview and fill the form it will happen again to know what's the timeline but yeah communicate conduct mock interview or if you don't get the interview through cq or anything ask out your seniors reach out to your seniors for having one or two three mock interviews before giving actual interview it will definitely help because the first time you will go go for an interview you will panic out it's it's normal to have because it will be a first time experience go for an interview, you will panic out. It's normal to have because it will be a first-time experience. Even if you have given a prior interview, giving interviews through CDC to big names like Deutsche Bank, DSP, Nomura, it's some sort of panic see-out. So it's always good to have some mock interviews before that, a CV review before that. Yeah, I think that's very important because there are a lot of details in your cv making which people who would be reviewing would be able to tell you like let's say just don't have any blank spaces what numbers to highlight what things to bold what things to place for us etc a lot of things like formatting etc like very small minute details which is something you get like send it to your patchmates if you think, like, you trust maybe who are not studying for CDC, etc. Like, try to send it to a lot of people. I know it's going to be a very tedious process and because everyone sends in some 10 different edits on your CV and you have to just go on, go around making changes. So, make sure you are taking into account all the changes. And then second thing, which I think would help you, just stay in touch with people, your batchmates, who are setting for the same profile because that helps you stay sane. Like if you have people preparing for the same profile, you know, like you don't slack off. You know how to prepare. You know how much to prepare. You know, like what are the resources. Like it's basically a motivating factor sort of in this entire period. So don't just stay in your own bubble and think i'll just stick to myself and it's a good idea if you just stay in touch and prepare together etc that's the only thing i have to say yeah okay one more point i have to add before preparing for interviews or go through basic hr question 10 5 they 5, 10 standard HR questions. If you clear every technical interview, every coding round and then you're done your HR round. So it's very bad for so definitely should know what's your weakness? What's your strength? Why do you want a career in finance? Or do you look five years down the line? So there are few basic HR questions you should definitely prepare for for that second thing is there is musting prepare your introduction well this is the first thing where your interview starts you can add in the end line yeah i work at this segment in my last internship or i have done a project on that topic and your introduction there there is broad coming method so you give them hint to ask question related to this topic so you are the one driving force behind your interviews so prepare your introduction well don't stuck there don't have some blabbering there you should be a like finest your introduction should be like in one go and do some best coming that gives some hint to them cost associated with this third thing is show your interest very well in the interview so that you are the best guy you are the most hard-working guy and you are the one which they should select so make them realize that that coming to the conclusion of this very insightful seminar thank you panelists for your valuable time and for sharing your insights and experience with us today your contribution have been truly valuable. Thank you audience for your active participation and engagement throughout this session.