Good evening, everyone. Continuing to the fourth day of Internship Training Week, brought
to you by Communique IIT Kharagpur. I'm Satakshi Chauhan, and I'm thrilled to be hosting today's
panel discussion with Piyush Sharma. Today we'll be diving into the fascinating world
of core and we hope this discussion covers all the questions and give you all the info
you need. At the end, we will be holding a Q&A session to address any remaining queries.
In today's session, we are joined by a highly competent panel of experts from IIT, Kharagpur.
It gives me a huge pleasure to introduce them to you.
First, we have with us Ms. Suveta, who got an intern in Dr. Reddy's laboratory.
Suveta, please introduce yourself to the audience.
Hello everyone, my name is Suveta.
I recently graduated from IIT Kharagpur with a B.Tech in Chemical Engineering. I have interned with Dr. Reddy's last summer in its manufacturing role at a center near Vizag.
Thank you. Next, we have Mr. Priyanshu Gautam, who got an intern in Qualcomm. Priyanshu,
would you like to introduce yourself to the audience?
Yeah. Hey, hi, everyone. My name is Priyantru Gautam.
I'm in my fifth year.
I'm in the ECE department and doing
my specialization in communications
and single pressing and yeah,
as I told him,
doing my internship at Qualcomm right now.
Thank you. Our final panelist for the
discussion is Mr. Saranthan Sarkar,
who got an intern in Jaguar Land Rover.
Sayanthan, would you please introduce yourself?
Yes, sir. Good evening, guys. My name is Sayanthan Sarkar.
I just completed my third year of study in Mechanical Engineering Department in B.Tech course.
So this is my last year and I am from Harawiz, Bengal and porter of JCB Hall of Residence.
my last year and I am from Harvest Bengal and I am a voter of JCB Hall of Residence.
So in Jaguar Land Rover, I am in the mechatronics profile. Here it is called EBC, it's a new body in JCB. Thank you, Santhi. Before starting the discussion, I would like to congratulate the
panelists for their achievements. We are looking forward to learning a lot from you.
So starting the panel discussion, the first question is, given that the software and data
roles are often the most talked about and invoked, what motivated you to choose a core
profile instead?
So, Vedha, would you like to begin?
Vedha Vadasanthakar, IIT Madras
Sure.
I mean, when I initially joined Ipool uh i was very much oriented with
research and then so like i i heard a lot about all this professed core uh core data
and then software and then consulate product and everything so i got like i gathered information
from all of my seniors and the core actually interested me a lot so initially my plan was to like pursue
higher education but when the CDC times came nearby so like I understood that my probably
my interest for now was more towards the R&D side so like I also I had learned few like I had also
learned coding and then tried different projects based on product and other things so core was
something that i found very interesting and they kind of have much interest in doing something
other than what i actually learned so chemical engineering was something that i really wanted
to pursue and then that is what that is why i opted in iit karagpur so that was my motivation behind code yeah sure would you like to add something to it
yeah sure so yeah like one of the reasons that's with them and mentioned that's actually pretty
correct that i also had that feeling that whatever i'm studying should be the one i would be working
in that made more sense to me and secondly like as you talked about in the question everyone was
doing software and data so that actually reinforced my decision because like i truly believe that you can really
stand out in a race if you are the only one running so that would actually make it make
things easier and like i am i usually go to class pretty regularly so going into core as internships
and a professional career path was a natural choice.
Thank you for the wonderful answer.
Looking forward to the next question. When crafting a CV for a core profile, what specific element should be highlighted to make our CV stand out among others?
Sayanthan, would you like to take it first?
then would you like to take it first?
Sure. For a core profile, yeah, so in ERP
you are allowed to make three
CVs at most. So yeah, you
can make a CV just dedicated to core
and upload it only to
the core companies coming there.
And yeah, like for core
profile, what I think is
the most
important thing that they look is the projects you have
done or internships you have done earlier and the competitions you have participated
in. If you have participated in some design hackathons, those kinds of things. So yeah,
those are obviously advantage over the others.
So, Vitha, would you like to add something?
Yeah, so basically, as Sayanth mentioned, the major thing they look for is internships and projects.
But when it comes to chemical, mechanical or electrical per se, like when you apply for companies based on core as well as supply chain,
your PORs also play a major role.
So, they look for what kind of P POS they've had in your past.
So it becomes important for you to highlight those parts as well. And sometimes these companies, supply chain companies,
also look for your extracurriculars.
As CVs are such an important part,
so how much time before you started to create your
cv for different profiles you have chosen
so should i take the question yeah so uh okay so like in my case i started preparing my cv
like i actually didn't prepare a different cv for cdc so i already had my cv
prepared i just uploaded it to the cdc portal whenever it uh got on so like whenever the date
was and that was i guess around in june some sometime in june don't exactly remember also uh
like making a cv for core profile i would like to highlight some points that i feel are very
important so uh especially in the people that are targeting core electronics roles would like to highlight some points that i feel are very important so uh especially in
the people that are targeting core electronics roles or like core electrical rules as i mentioned
you should add projects and the project should be meaningful so like now the natural question is how
do you get a meaningful project that you can add to your cv so uh like anything that actually hikens
your curiosity can result to a very good project.
So like if I take electronics, for example, there can be a lot of things like right now
there's a lot of AI boom, due to which there is a lot of funds and actually, I mean, the
natural genuine interest in GPUs and let's say hardware accelerators.
So anything that you can do in line of these things
inspired by your curiosity
will end up in a good project that you can add in your CV.
Then there are other projects also
like course projects that you can add.
And yeah, as Suvita mentioned,
PORs also can play a good role.
So in my case, like I had my PORs for inter-IT,
I did a hardware-related event there.
So that actually guided my interview
through pretty well.
Yeah, that I think would be good.
Making the CV actually,
there's one more part to CV making.
So like once you make the CV,
it's very important that you get it verified.
And there is a very like nice way,
like I read, I think,
in one of Aryan's post on LinkedIn so like here there
he mentions that whenever you make your CV for the first draft send it to your friends to get
it verified they'll get you the most obvious errors then go to your seniors they'll make in
your profile they'll tell you what to do in your CV how to make it stand out better and then the
third thing which rarely guys do is uh reach out to alums that are
working in companies you are targeted so that would actually give you a very first-hand experience
and what the uh recruiter is looking for so if you do your cv verification in these three steps it
would be really nice so i would advise people to go through these steps.
Thank you, Priyanshu.
Additionally, how important are online courses
in enhancing your qualifications for such roles?
OK, so I would like to take a look at this.
So like online courses, if you think
that there are some points in the CV for which you require in-depth knowledge,
because whatever you are adding in CV, be it small or big, you should plan out the extremest
questions that can be possible from that thing.
So what we call a CV green.
So yeah, when you give your friends for that CV review, then you should ask your friends
to conduct a mock interview or maybe your
seniors also.
So like all the types of questions that can be popped up from the CV.
So if you're doing online courses and you are getting knowledge on that, then you can
maybe better about that specific thing.
So yeah, you can add it like in the course section, if you add this term called MOOCS,
so MOOCs on that,
you can add the online courses that you do.
Yeah.
Thank you for your valuable inputs.
Yes, Ransh.
Yeah, so like exactly what Sayanthan said,
the online courses do actually make sense
if you have a particular goal in mind.
So I would not advise you to go out looking for courses just to add it in your CV. First make a goal and then look out
for a course that actually fulfills your goal and your CV. And I think coursework that you did in
your department actually is a very great point of discussion in the interview. So my interview
had a lot of discussion on what courses I did and wrote in my CV. So even if you do not do online courses or can't find any, it's completely natural.
Thank you.
Moving on to the next question.
How many projects or internships should one ideally have to be competitive enough for
core profile?
Tendan, would you like to begin?
Yeah, so projects and internships,
like, yeah, like upon projects and internships,
if you have like three to four projects
or combining projects and internships,
if you have three to four of that points in that column,
then it's enough.
But like even if you do one or two projects
maybe under professor course projects or maybe yourself projects that also do count and
they're also very uh like attractive to the interviewers so yeah whatever you write you
should have mentioned the uh the important results that you have the meaningful results that you have
obtained uh like how did you approach the project like all the important points that you want to be highlighted uh when
you are appearing for an interview because uh yeah so whatever you're doing you should show
that you have done a meaningful contribution to that work and you have opted you have obtained
what you have targeted so it's okay yeah, would you like to add something to it?
No, actually, like, Saindran summed up pretty well.
Like, at this point, I actually just thought of a quote.
So, if you have heard of Gardner, so he actually tells this, that excellence is doing ordinary things in an extraordinary way.
So, I would say that you do not have to find
projects that look extraordinary you can do even your lab experiments in such a way that actually
uh like reflect in your cv and you can go the extra mile and do something extra and then whatever
is else you can you can like add it in your cv that would uh make for a good cv and a good project
CV that would make for a good CV and a good project.
Can you all maybe mention the projects and the internships that you all did to get into this field?
So if I start then, in my CV at the time of the internships, I had one hackathon that
was the DVCon hackathon. In there, the work was
related to computer architecture itself, and it was on FPGs. Like last year, it didn't happen. So
this year, I don't know whether it would happen or not. But yeah, other than that, one project
that I did under a professor that was related to control systems. And the third was, I think,
my DIY project that was also hardware-based.
So I added that.
A DIY project can be a good addition.
I figured that out.
Like, first-year, everybody do DIY.
So, like, they can add it in your CV if you have done a pretty good job.
Thank you, Shubh.
So, Vedha, would you like to share yours?
A project and internship.
So I had one internship with this organization called Indira Gandhi Center for Atomic Research.
That was like an industrial internship.
And I had a project under professor that was mostly research-based.
And then, yeah, I also added the DIY project and a few other competitions,
bit and then yeah i also added the diy project and a few other competitions which i had like one like which have gone to the national level pretty pretty much in the school level so for me it was
okay because i was in my second year and then we had not begun off in semester completely so
in that case it was okay for me to mention those competitions as well so yeah so other point that
i wanted to add regarding this thing is that like the companies look for differently for
the b tech guys and the dual guys so for the beta guys if you even have two to three internships
plus projects summed up it is like quite a good number and it's like mostly based on how you
display your work what contribution you have made to
the project or internship more than what what how big the project or internship is
so that that's some input i got from the cvs
and then would you like to share yours yeah so like i was a part of many research groups and formula 20.
So yeah, I was a part of team card.
So I did a considerable work in there for first and second year.
So I could write a lot of things on that.
I also added my work in KRSSG in ARK.
I also did a project regarding carbon fiber under a professor of aerospace department
and I did a maker dynamics modeling project.
I joined it very lately in summer only.
I did it under ATTC.
These were the projects I had.
I also added this kind of management as a PR2.
So yeah. I didn't have internship.
OK, thank you. Can you maybe share us the resources of
your projects respectively where you got those resources from?
OK, so if I start with it.
Yeah, yeah sure.
No, actually I wanted to understand the question resources for projects as in what exactly?
As in like what resources did you refer to for?
Like for starting a project or working on it.
OK, thank you.
You can go left.
OK, so so for projects under professors I would say you go to
the website of KGP and there you can find the bio of the
professors where they mentioned the current projects they're
working upon and sometimes they're also not very updated.
So you can, like, there are some professors that actually have taken your courses or you
know that what field they're working on specifically of your department.
So you can approach them, you maybe mail them about if you have already done the course
under him, then you mention your grade and you show that you like you have already done the course under him then you mention your grain and you
show that you like you have interest in that field that he's working upon and you share that i have read these research papers i have gained these are the current work that is going on in
this field so yeah if you approach in that way you frame a mail and send to him then maybe that's a
good thing or you can actually approach
professors, but after I would say just mail them and then you personally meet them. It'll
be good.
Okay, thank you so much. Savita, would you like to continue with it?
Yeah, so one point that I'd like to add is that it's also good if you know the TA is
working under the professors because they'll have really good idea of what different fields the professor is actually working on currently
so that is the thing and for industrial internships you can go to the websites and see
different programs under which these companies or other organizations actually hire interns and then
you can mail them stating your year and courses you have taken up with the sample
resume and then what things you are actually interested in working under them.
I think that was very informative. Thank you so much for the answer.
So moving forward, it is well known that one should opt a core profile when they have
a high CG.
So, what are your thoughts on it?
Ranshu, would you like to start?
Okay, so actually, like I would really like to make like want to make this point here
that if you're opting for core profile, like what I learned from my experience is that
if you're opting for a profile, any any profile then you shouldn't look at in the perspective of landing an intern or a placement
sure that if you land an intern or a placement it's a very good thing actually you'll have
some experience working in corporate but if you are really choosing the profile then choose
it out of your interest and like it can happen that you do not land an intern.
Even in that case, keep your head high
and you can actually get to whatever you want.
So as far as importance of CG is considered,
if you want to land an intern, then CG actually
plays a good enough role.
But there are always corner cases.
So if you're interested and have actually
chosen hardware profile you do interest, then I would say that that i can like even i can give you two examples right now
that i know personally so both of them had uh i would not say a high cg that you would uh think
that you should have for going into code uh like one person didn't get a cdc intern due to the cg
but then even like then he managed to to, uh, go to Canada under
my tax program.
And then he also landed a placement in displacement.
So I would say that like importance of TV is only if you want to get an intern, but
then intern also depends on a lot of other factors.
So having a good CD always is a positive, but I would say that if you have good interest,
then you should pursue a core profile anyway,
irrespective of the C.
So, Antin, would you like to add more to it?
Yeah, sure.
So yeah, CG is obviously a factor
because this is the parameter through which they judge
how serious you are in your academics.
So yeah, if you don't have that much considerable amount of projects in your CV,
then they ask questions from code only. So if you are not serious in academics,
then maybe you can miss out on those. But yeah, at this point, if you're
upgrading in Cdc and Dsr, obviously you don't have a hand in increasing CG this time. So
don't get down. But yeah, above 8.5 it really helps in getting poor CG but
below that it works but for those who are yet like can't everyone has to sit in placement support so
yeah try to keep it above 8 because for core even for my tax it is important to keep it above 8.5
and for dart and all it's like they prefer high cg guys 9.2 plus
so keeping a cg is obviously an added advantage so if someone is not having a high cg a cutoff
type so what extra should he do to cope up with it i think the internship or project
I know guys who secure internships at a CG of 7.3 and 7.2. So if you have sacrificed your CG by doing more actual hands-on things in core, then
that's obviously much more important, has much more weightage than your CG. So like if you have less CG, then in the interview
if you get selected, they also ask that,
why do you have this less CG?
Because they know that he has caliber.
So if you can say that, like my CG has dropped down
due to my serious involvement in these things.
So yeah, that's obviously a nice thing to do.
Thank you.
It was quite insightful.
Jumping on to the next question.
Did you also prepare for the non-core profile job and consider it your plan B?
Should I take up yeah sure okay so uh like actually i did think about software and consulting for one at the start of the summer last year uh but like software was a pretty big
profile and couldn't like i couldn't see myself getting through it along with course so like as
a secondary profile so I dropped that and after talking to seniors and alums I figured out that
concern my profile was not strong enough in concept to have it as backup so I just moved forward with
code and pursuing higher education actually like not until coming here that i thought that maybe personal education might be an option but
yeah it's open so like right now uh maybe in the future i do not know what the future holds for me
but uh you should be open to every other opportunity maybe you turn your mind sunday so
yeah definitely one of the options thank you so much Priyanshu so Veda would you like to something
would you like to add something to it yeah sure like actually back during my internship CVC
internship time so like I was not pretty much interested in any other profile and then I would
thank my family for not forcing me to like having a backup so it's pretty sure like I remember still
remember I just had applied for five companies during my internship so it's pretty sure like i remember still remember i just had applied
for five companies during my internship time so i was sure like if i couldn't get into the cdc
internship thing like i had other backup options like applying for research internships or like
probably my tech or something so like i would advise you to not give up on your interest just
because like uh you would be left out when other friends of yours get
an intern cdc internship so regarding higher education as i already mentioned so initially
when i entered iit i wanted to do hires but they gradually i thought like that was my long-term
plan i didn't want to immediately do an ms or phd after my b my BTech so probably I'll look about that in the future.
So as of now like I'd like to explore more other such profiles in code and basically get some
experience. So Priyanshu and Santhan did you also consider about getting into a higher education?
getting into higher education.
Yeah, talking about me.
So about higher education, yeah, it was one of my options even now. So yeah, like for higher education, if you want to pursue
that's obviously like if you have true interest in core so
you can obviously pursue higher education.
There are lots of scope in research these days.
If you go to MSN, go for MSN, that's obviously an option.
Janshu, would you like to add something?
No, nothing.
Okay, thank you for the insightful answer.
As someone who has successfully navigated internships in court profile, could you provide insights into how aspiring interns can best prepare themselves for such roles?
Additionally, what are some crucial do's and don'ts that you would recommend for individuals
entering this field?
So I would like to start here.
So like for the do's and don'ts you mentioned, so do's are like pretty limited.
So like all the basics you take off, you have a good basic understanding of the concepts
for electronics will have to learn analog, analog digital signal processing and computer architecture so like computer architecture
actually it depends so like if you're a vtec guy it's actually an option for you but i would say
that you can learn it anyway i mean if you're interested it's a pretty good field so if you
have not been taught in kgp of course and you do it on your own it's always an advantage so you can do that other than
that uh for the do's actually i mean it's just that you uh hope for the best and prepare for the
worst so like that would pretty much sum it for the don'ts actually i would say uh don't corner
yourself of from non-core profiles so uh like what i've seen usually in guys that uh seriously prepare for code profiles
like uh analog digital they actually do not like coding at all or do not like uh let's say ai and
ml kind of stuff but what i recently figured out here in my internship also and from people that
it's not usually the line between i mean code and non- code is usually blurred and you'll come here in your interns. Usually interns do not have any specific work. So like your teams would have their own work
and they'll assign you some work, but it would be usually be pretty work. So in Python or something.
So I would really say that do not create an aversion for yourself from coding or let's say
AI and if you're going into core electronics do them hand
to hand do them parallelly like take a taste of all the things that you can get your hands on
and then like you can always incorporate it into your CV or into your work so if you know step it's
always better yeah that's it. So Veda would you like to share some do's and don'ts for getting into core profile of chemical
department uh sure like if you uh look forward to get an cbc based internship so it's usually
advised that you have a company specific preparation because like the chemical field
is very broad you cannot sit uh preparing all the subjects that you have learned so far so
it's basically it basically boiled down to few
courses which are very much important in the industry and then few topics which are mostly
used in the industry so you're preparing like you having basic knowledge of all this is like very
much sufficient and other things is that like you need to have very good communication skills it's
not about english like how well you can communicate what you're thinking and what like basically how you can express your point uh so yeah so most of the supply chain based companies and like core
companies they have some round called the group discussion round so in that you need to have
knowledge of basically current affairs or like some common topic and some in some cases you have
technical technical based theory so you need to be aware of
some particular uh topic in chemical engineering based on which a industry-based topic will be
given and then you need to express your ideas and in the group you need to come up with a solution
so so yeah that would be helpful and yeah so have a very good cv and then for the HR rounds, you can have a good introduction.
And then what questions are usually asked.
And I think there's a book called the ATHR questions, something like that.
So refer up what are the model answers.
And then you can have some pointers ready with you before you go for the internment.
And then would you like to add something about the mechanical department
yeah sure for the mechanical department also it's a very vast field so like there are section
of students that especially like design manufacturing kind of stuff there are
students that like fluid some of the analysis kind of things yeah, it's also very broad. So like adding to both of you,
it's like whatever thing you prepare for, you should have an in-depth knowledge about that.
So suppose like me, I have appeared in my end of the second year. So I did some of the manufacturing
and design too in my research groups. So there are some basic stuff that are taught in
the third year so if you're a four-year student i would say just take up some concepts from the
sub-subjects like design of machine elements like kinematics of machines those kind of things the
only important things that you need to support your projects and it's that, as I said, like you, it's not like if you are in mechanical, you should only do core mechanical.
Talking specifically of JLR, JLR also is a coding round.
So you have to be at least some handy in the coding skills to pass that test.
And also like I've completed four weeks of my internship.
So I know what type of work is done here.
It's like all about different types of coding.
So even I do my 60%, 70% of my job
in doing embedded hardware kind of stuff,
reading data sheets all the time and those things.
So yeah, and some of my friends in Mechatronics also,
they are developing apps in MATLAB.
So yeah, like you should not have an abortion towards coding.
So yeah, you should have a hands-on knowledge on everything.
Whatever you learn, yeah, that's obviously an advantage.
And during the interview, whatever thought process you are having,
just speak with yourself so that you can communicate better with the interview.
So communication is also a very vital skill.
Thank you so much for sharing our invaluable inputs
and discussing about the do's and don'ts.
Continuing further to the next question.
At the end of their third year,
students have an option to switch over
from BTech to a dual degree.
How much does this switchover help
building their core profile
and what are the benefits of doing so?
Janshu, would you like to start uh so like btech to dual degree so in my opinion i think if you do dual degree you'll always get more time on your hands and that is a very lucrative thing to have in kgp
because like people when they finish their third year they think like in their second years or during internships when they sit in the second year so i think that if we would have more
time then we'll get to know things better and do stuff uh but usually like in my opinion what
happens is uh that time is only valuable or necessary i would say when you know exactly
what you need to do while staying in kgp so like i can think of some things
that you can do with more time so you'll obviously have more times to land let's say one or two more
po s and even you can do a good research work here in kgp but in my opinion usually i do not advise
people to actually convert from btech to do it you always have better options uh going out of iit like out of india even if you want to
mtechs if you need to go to mtech or phd there are a lot of better options out of india like
in india there's it itself but like if you are from an iit then you can do a level up and go to
let's say world's best universities in electronics you'll definitely get more exposure and
more experience there so yeah uh there are both sides of the story.
In my opinion, people shouldn't, but people have their opinions to do it also.
So Vitha, would you like to add something?
So it's the same thing like Priyansha said.
So the thing is, when you go for a switchover, the company starts expecting more from you
because you have one more, you have extra year in hand compared to the B.Tech guys.
So even though your internships and projects are very good, but probably they may not prefer
you over the B.Tech guys.
That is one thing I've observed in the companies which come to hire chemical engineers.
The other thing is that if you're not very sure of what you want to do please don't go for a switchover unless like if you're very sure it'll
be a very helpful thing because there are other specifications that could be helpful but for core
i do i wouldn't advise because like what i generally felt parties for chemical is that
the specifications here are not very great so like i wouldn't prefer wasting one year of mine here probably i'll go
like i'll take probably i'll get an industry exposure use it for like some other kind of
preparation or like probably hires so there is some preference between btech or dual degree
students among the companies so they prefer more to yeah so no i mean they expect more from dual degree people
because you have one extra year in hand so they expect more in every aspect the other thing is
that like from the company's point of view the companies need to pay more for the dual guys
because they have higher qualification rate they have two degrees in hand so when you are being
hired as a full-time employee they need to pay you more so probably
they wouldn't prefer that but yeah this trend keeps changing but generally this has been observed
also is the selection process different for a ptec or a dual degree student
or do they conduct different question or round of selections
question or round of selections. So, Antan, would you like to?
Yeah, so the selection is same for both BTech and dual degree students.
So like it's all boils down to the same thing as Suveta said that yeah, for BTech students
the syllabus is limited.
So obviously the interviewer has more expectations for dual degree than is for BTech.
And one more thing I want to add to that switchover thing
that many people, like I observed my friends
that for not getting CDC,
they have opted for a switchover for Spilly.
I don't know why, but yeah, okay.
I would say that only for getting another chance in CDC,
just don't switch over
unless you are really interested in that department you are pursuing your honors in.
CDC is not the end of life, it's just an intensive selection process.
Thank you.
Yes.
Yeah. So actually what I wanted to add that in dual degree, the selection process is exactly
the same.
There is a dual bias of some companies that come for electronics, but then like they come
here and then they see that is like the bias that people usually have this.
So in Jailer actually it's completely different.
Jailer usually prefers VTech people more than dual people.
So that's something I've seen from electronics department especially and
then uh there are some companies like let's say adi and nxp tsmc prefers only phds but uh like
other than that yeah adi and xps uh on both of them prefer dual degree guys more than beta people
thank you these answers was very impacting.
Kipping over to the next question. Coding has become
one of the most demanded and appreciated skills in engineers.
But there still is a dilemma regarding its usage in core profile.
How much coding is required for core profile and how to prepare for it?
Yash, would you like to begin?
So, yeah, I mean, if I talk about electronics, then coding is actually necessary, I would say.
I mean, you'll have to do c coding and very low coding like if
you go into a vlsi kind of stuff that's the majority of the people that go like that choose
code electronics that go into vlsi kind of stuff it's so very long and c is a must you should know
basics of programming and as i said in my previous answer should never create an aversion to coding
that would really hurt you in the long run because whatever you do here would be in some kind of a system and you will do coding in some way or the other so
like running away from it there's like there's no running away from it you'll have to face it
somewhere so better to like start learning you wouldn't need coding uh in the selection process
i would say uh but then you should have a basic grasp of what programming is and how it
works and like how you can write basic c programs or even let's say very low programs so that would
help you so whether would you like to add if coding is also affected in the core profile
jobs for chemical department i mean it's not a necessity for you to do coding but then it's
very helpful if you know coding because like even in your curriculum you have a lot of other
softwares wherein you need to code like maybe matlab or other simulation based things or
problem like modeling a problem so all this actually requires coding knowledge and it's
actually helpful for you to know all this AI stuff and deep learning and everything.
If you have good knowledge of it, because like now the industry is actually moving towards this industry 4.0.
So like people are looking for IoT and then automation basically.
So it's good if you have knowledge of this. other thing i observed is that even people in the industry like like senior senior officers who are
not aware of this coding thing they are being made to learn like get a good idea of this like
they're by providing some kind of courses so like because industries are moving to the next level so
it is like you will always have a upper hand if you know all this and then it becomes mandatory
for you to know because say at least for chemical, as you approach the third and fourth year, many courses, you need to know
basic algorithms, variable code, and then, I mean, not
high-level coding, of course, the basic ones, like Python, MATLAB,
all this will help.
Thank you, Savita. Syantham, would you like to add something?
Yeah, so, as I already said, Suveta. Santham, would you like to add something? Yeah, so I already said something of it.
So yeah, I'll just add to their points, obviously.
So like some bit of MATLAB and MATLAB coding, it helps.
And in Jailer, as I mentioned, it has a coding run.
So you need to have some basic knowledge of it.
And it's like, as Suveta said,
like industry is moving to a whole new automation. And there's like, as Suveta said, like industry is moving
into a whole new automation.
And there are a lot of software stuff
involved even in the core mechanical.
So as I observed here,
that what happened previously
was that the mechanical guys
used us to do the hardware
and they had to hire
external software firms
to do the software coding part of thing.
And this actually increased the total manufacturing cost and all those things. So currently what they're forms to do the software coding part of thing and this actually increased the
total manufacturing cost and all those things so currently what they're trying to do is uh
do some part of it yourself at least understand the basic stuff involved in it and then you can
approach the software guys you can see what they're doing and all those things so yeah they
prefer guys that know a little bit of coding so that they can carry on with stuff so yeah you can obviously learn coding as a passion if not you are opting for sd so yeah coding is a map to that
thank you so much for the invaluable answers
moving to the next question reflecting on your intensive experience can provide
variable insights in your future growth can you share some mistakes that you believe you made during your internship season?
So, Vitha, would you like to start?
During my internship season, one big mistake that I made was that I panicked a lot because
I was in my second year back then and I like really worried if I would be able to secure
a CDC internship or not so I mean you need not consider CDC as the end of the world because
you have a lot of other opportunities out there that was one mistake I made so probably if I was
a bit more chill I could have performed way better.
Some mistake that I did in my internship was that I overworked a lot.
Like, I mean, I over-exerted myself.
Like, I probably did not need to work so much for the company because it's just an internship thing.
So, basically, like, you need to work.
Like, always ensure that you're getting something out of the company
and you're giving something to the company as well so and then we like to add any mistakes that you feel you made seasons
yeah sure so like procrastination is the biggest mistake i would say so like uh the semester ended
and then the summer started uh it it felt like we had a lot of time,
but slowly, slowly the CV making process also started
and the time went on.
And because as I said, I appeared in the four-year student,
so I took over some of the third-year subjects as well.
So yeah, procrastination, don't do that.
Okay.
And yes, that's pretty much written what not
to do I would say that sometimes you feel like starting your CPC preparation in
the semester and your 4th sem or 6th sem those CGE actually falls down so don't do
that you can start off in the summer itself. And one more mistake that I did that,
but many people doesn't do that.
After making your CV, please, please do it,
do verify it from your seniors, from your friends,
and everyone, like ask them to take more interview of you.
Like if I say for myself, my final CV that I uploaded
was a 20-second iteration, okay?
So like I sent to various of my society seniors,
my friends and all,
they gave me feedback
because for many people,
their perspective are different.
And yeah.
So you follow the basic CV making rules
and all that actually helps.
CV is involved in 30% of your selection.
I would add to that point.
I didn't agree with that before.
That's true.
Thank you.
That provided a lot of understanding.
For the final question,
due to recession and slowing global markets,
many people couldn't get interns
and sometimes offer being revoked.
So what steps should we take
when we face a situation
of being unable to secure an internship?
Priyanshu, would you prefer to start?
Of course, I mean, so like, actually, I mean, offers being removed and the second thing, like not landing an intern.
So as Savitha mentioned in her last answer, not landing an intern, I completely understand why it would feel a pretty big thing
when it happens but trust me like all my peers like almost all my peers who are here doing an
hardware internship are in doing uh let's say a lot of work so like we do like the stuff we do
in kjp we're occupied almost always but in interns, like the kind of work they give,
like almost in every hardware companies, pretty work like you actually do not need any high
IQ or something to do that.
So you're not missing out on anything, not landing an intern.
You just miss out on, let's say traveling on company expenses and living it.
So you can very well make up for it by doing a very good intern and like under a professor or even in some other research program like my tax for that.
So that can be very well taken care of. So I would say that if anybody does not land
a core intern and that would happen because like many people apply for core interns and
like global recession is going on and every company
is being hit by it.
So that would happen.
You should have in mind what you would do if you are not able to land an intern.
Second thing, offers being revoked.
I mean, that for interns is a pretty rare thing, but I mean, it happens and it's crazy. I mean, like at that point, so my offer was revoked, like for APT, they revoked my offer in February. So like at that time, it was pretty stressful, obviously, during figured out two months, like I got my intern after two months in Qualcomm.
So during those two months, I figured out that there are some things that you just don't do after you don't land an intern or your offer gets through.
You should never do a self-doubt.
I mean, like self-doubt is a pretty useless thing to have because even if you make it you'll have to then wake up the next
day and do the same things all over again and even if you do not make it you'll have to do the same
thing things do not change like we move forward in such a fashion like we end up achieving a goal
and then life will change but that's not how life works it actually just one thing after another
life is actually in the journey so you should just enjoy the journey and CDC is a pretty random process.
There's no point in basing your happiness on whether you land an intern or not.
Landing an intern actually depends on a lot of factors that are not in your control.
And realizing that you cannot control everything is like where humility comes in.
And I did not like I am that kind of a person that
actually feels that I can let's say with my hard work and stuff uh change my destiny or something
but like once that offer got removed I really got to understand what people mean when they say that
you cannot change everything everything's not in your control so i would really like people to hear that i mean do what you're
doing maintain your interest do like be truthful to yourself whenever you feel like whatever you
need to do do it and do not care about the things that you can't control always have your perspective
in the way the things that you can control and things would go pretty well so like most of the
cases like in this time the time is pretty bad so it can happen that you do control and things would go pretty well so like most of the cases like in
this time the time is pretty bad so it can happen that you do not land an intern or your offer gets
a good but understand that it's more about the timing rather than uh your capability so never
doubt yourself that would be like the biggest injustice you could do to yourself because that
would actually build in a lot of guilt within and like
always accept the pain that any situation brings to you never accept the guilt so like guilt
actually has a lot of burden that it puts on you it does not let you get out of bed in the morning
so like do not get guilt by yourself whatever you, only take the pain and use that pain to fuel your discipline.
Discipline actually is very underrated.
People usually go after motivation, but I would say motivation is something that fluctuates a lot.
You should always bet yourself on discipline.
Do things that you are supposed to do, even if you don't want to.
And in some time, whenever the time is right, whenever like things get in your
people, you'll get what you deserve.
So hard work never falters.
Always continue that one.
Pretty much.
Thank you, Priyanshu.
It is very inspiring how you converted a setback into an opportunity.
So, Etta, would you like to add more to it.
So and then could you continue more in this question?
Yeah, it was beautifully put by Priyansha.
He probably was after that. But yeah, like in core, in any profile,
I would say it is very important to stay consistent.
So it's not that every one of you will be selected
in the first four weeks and all.
See, this is a very long process, very tedious process,
and very beautiful process because like it always gives you
that motivation to continue your preparation and all just don't
give up in the middle of the process it is conducted in two phases it's a very big process
it continued till april two months before so yeah you obviously have many chances and even if you
get if you don't get just continue your preparation because every day you learn that adds to your
knowledge so don't give up and rejection is just a part of the life because every day you learn that adds to your knowledge so
don't give up and rejection is just a part of the life and like whatever you learn from the
interview whatever you learn from the test just remember that because of course learning from
the mistakes is a big thing if you don't learn from the mistakes you are at the same level
you are not improving yourself so be positive about it That's all I have to say.
Thank you, Santhan. One thing I would like to add this time,
like I just remembered.
So usually what happens is people
over dwell on their past.
I mean, you blame your past a lot.
I mean, there would be people who would think right now
that you could have done that thing, or there would be people who would think right now that um you could
have done those that thing or you would have done that lab or that subject pretty good and you
couldn't like then you have to do it now so people usually blame their past a lot so i would say that
there's this very famous quote where the person says that the right time to do anything was let's
say whenever you're thinking but the second
best time is to do it right now so just put your head down and do what you're supposed to do that
would actually turn out better and don't let your past uh blackmail your present to ruin a
beautiful which i think it's lying from some movie but yeah it fits perfectly well yet
Also, as we know that core is not much opportunities like in software or data. So if someone was unable to get an internship, so is there enough time to change your profile to data or software? So, you can go.
Okay, so like, I mean, if, like you should make that decision pretty stern enough, like
in the semester or let's say in the beginning of the summer vacations, the profile you want
to take.
I mean, you can go out with it throughout the year and get something like it's not that if you don't
land a corporate intern you won't get anything in the code profile uh if you want to switch
profiles then that is also completely okay but i'd say the time for it is not exactly in the
third year or after you have uh for one cdc it would be more in your first and second years
like in my point of view
in your first and second years. Like in my point of view.
So, anything you would like to add to it?
Yeah, sure.
So, like, yeah, because
if you are in a core department
where you
actually deal with these core
things in your semester itself,
so what I have observed is
even if you don't have any projects in your semester itself so what i have observed is even even if you don't have any
projects in your cv then the interviewer asks just about the code questions so the interviewer
targets first to ask about your cv whatever you have like if i say about myself only three to
four points of my cv covered around one hour 20 minutes of the interview. Okay, and that was a total interview. So yeah, like if you don't have that much products,
then you can use your core knowledge skills. So I would say because ERP gives an option to
make three CVs, then a lot of CVs only to the core field, you can use that because yeah, just
with coding and whatever planning you are having, you can carry on your
revision and whatever you have studied.
That will help if you want to switch
over to profile software
some amount of time.
That's it.
Thank you all for
your motivating answers.
At last, respected panelists,
would you like to give some advice to your juniors in your
respective departments
yeah so would you like to begin i mean like i've given a lot of advice during the whole session
like right now uh i mean there are three quotes that i live by
actually so i would just reiterate those that are like guiding philosophy of my life so first is
like work hard and party harder so like work extremely hard for whatever you have in your
mind but like when the time comes to actually uh throw yourself a party and do a party then
do not shy away from it work hard and party hard second uh the thing like
second is that think yourself i mean think that you cannot fail let's say you are given the
superpower that you cannot fail and then say to yourself what would you do if you couldn't fail
that is really uh i mean the first time I heard that quote was pretty inspiring because usually it really reminds us of what cycles we have bound ourselves in.
If you knew you couldn't fail, you'll dream a lot higher than what you're doing right now.
So, I mean, if like if you knew you couldn't fail, you wouldn't be looking for let's say an intern or a placement.
You'll be actually looking to make a dental course as they say or like do something bigger than that do something like really impactful that you like or let's say that in your eyes won't
make a greater impact so like that is a that is one thing second third thing is like set
your goals very high i mean do not settle for mediocre because mediocrity because like
you guys and iitians in general have been blessed with
a lot of amenities and a lot of cushion and comfort. So it's our duty and responsibility
to set our goals high. And it's not exactly for achieving them because like setting goals
high, set the goals high because of what it would make out of you. Because when you like,
like Sundar Pichai said in one of his speeches, like if you aim for the sun, then you will end up landing on the moon.
So, I mean, that's what it is.
If you aim hugely high and even if you fail, you'll end up getting pretty good somewhere.
So, like that is, yeah, that three things I would like to say.
Thank you so much, Priyanshu, for the advice.
So, Veta, would you like to add something?
So, basically, i would advise everyone
to like immerse yourself in whatever you're doing i mean like experience a lot of other things in
kgp not just seeking an internship it could be in terms of prs and exports anything i mean like
put yourself in a lot of other things like basically like enjoy the experience than the
end goal i would say i mean fix the goal of course
and then work for it just see how you can work better for it don't uh pressurize yourself just
give your best and then take what you can from that and then enjoy the journey basically so
yeah that is pretty much it and like i mean like whatever you get don't forget for it just
see how you can correct that in future.
Thank you, sir.
Veta, Selvan would like to add some final points into it.
Sure.
That's pretty much sounds to their points.
But yeah, just don't get stuck into your academics all the time just to get an internship.
I would say that KJP
offers a lot of opportunities. There are many competitions being organized like open IT, even
product design, hardware modeling, case study, all those things. If you participate, even if you don't
have any prior knowledge to that, that increases your presentation skills and all. There are many
soft skills that you don't even recognize but they actually help you in the
long run they actually help very much if it improves your communication your speaking skills
your presentation making skills how do you sum up your cv and all those things so another thing
coming to the ctc part whatever you do whatever competitions you participate in, just make the most of it and
try to fit it into the CV as much as you can in that effort page.
So and just as I said, like don't give up.
There are a lot of opportunities coming by.
There are Mitacs and Darth tooth.
There are a lot of core projects in that.
So nothing is smaller than the other.
So yeah, try to keep your just don't lose your passion in code
just if you don't get internship in it so it's a very beautiful field there are a lot of
opportunities actual handy stuff uh here i see the depression that the software guys are having so
code is really very interesting like i enjoy a lot so i would say just follow it that's all all the list
thank you for the highly informative session i'm confident that this will be extremely beneficial
for our audience we are excited to open the floor to questions from the janta please take this
opportunity to submit your questions in the chat box.
We are looking forward to hearing from you. And if no questions are there right now,
you guys can always reach us out on LinkedIn, Facebook
or any other social media platform you can find us on.
That is always open obviously.
It seems that nobody has any other queries apart from the session.
So let's move forward. Thank you, panelists.
We have almost reached the end of our really insightful and informative event.
I would ask panelists if there are some fun or useful tips that may have been missed in the discussion tonight.
Not pretty much that I can remember now.
Okay.
Most of the things are covered in.
Yeah, actually, like, one thing that I'd like to add is like people actually thinking about
going into code.
So it's a pretty good time to like explore code because there's a lot of money, real
physical money flowing in so like i recently
heard the news that nvidia would overtake apple to become the second most valuable company so a
lot of money investors are owning and so it's a good time to go into code if you feel like it
and in india also they are also targeting a boom if china attacks but yeah there's a question it seems do we need to be good at cp for the
answer question from shiva please uh so i'll take it i guess okay yeah so uh actually not exactly
for all the companies so uh competitive programming what I saw was most of the companies do not ask.
So as Santhan mentioned, JLR does have a coding room.
They ask some questions of coding.
So there you'll need some coding that you should know.
You should be pretty thorough with first year step.
That is the basics.
That is for every profile.
But moving forward, if you're not setting for APT,
I do not know whether they would come this year.
But if you're targeting APT,
then why are you typing hardware?
But if you're targeting APT in hardware,
then they actually have a coding ground.
Not exactly coding ground, but they
have questions related to Python.
That test is more software inclined than hardware inclined,
as you would expect from NHFT. They have DSA to Python. Their test is more software inclined than hardware inclined, as you would expect from an HFT.
They have DSA stuff there, so core DSA stuff.
So you need a level up from your first year stuff.
Then there are questions related to OOPs implementation
in Python, especially OOPs implementation in Python.
So you can watch, let's say, a three to four hour video to get through it. You should have some hands on
experience with how oops is actually implemented in Python
and like how to define classes and let's say what are the
common pitfalls during oops. So yeah, that would be pretty much
it. So not really necessary for any other company.
Second question, which one should I prepare?
Analog, digital, DSP, which one has max opportunity?
So, uh, I would say that, uh, if you're talking about opportunities, then VLSI
does have great opportunity then signal processing and communications both.
Uh, so like VLSI companies are more and then they come also.
So, uh, analog and digital should be a must you should
prepare and if you are a VTech student then it's a must you should prepare both. So I had these
questions from VTech guys that we are more focused towards digital so should we prepare only digital.
If you want to land a CDC intern and you're sitting at the end of the second year the
interviewer rarely have anything to ask you like i do not
i'm not expecting anything extra from you guys like any project or something so uh it's all
about your post work so at least give him that option that you can ask from analog or digital
other than that uh you can so like signal processing profile there's one in ti but
they have really core single processing things so at least if you're not into signal processing that much,
I wouldn't say to keep your bet on that single profile.
But there's one or two companies that come for signal,
digital signal processing also.
Third is 8.5 plus CGPS safe for CDI.
Yeah, absolutely safe actually.
8.5 plus would land you like interviews or let's say tests at
least or any of the companies that come in cdc generally discouraging towards code what why do
you think that is and how do those opinions how do those opinions hold true uh i mean like actually
what i'd say that everyone in kgp the even us, like we are at a very early stages
in our careers. So like, if you talk to somebody who has been in the industry for let's say
10, 15 years, they'll tell you that it is rarely the thing that whatever you get your
placement in, you continue with that industry in all your lifetime. People usually change
industries at like pretty much every level from from intern to placement even after placements and so like going into core should be based out of your
interest and people discourage because there are less people going into core assets and uh i mean
even seniors in core are pretty less so like if you have a genuine interest you will be able to
pave your way and actually then it's a double edged sword,
as I mentioned.
If there's only a few people running your reason,
it's a great chance that you can stand out.
So you can't take your bet and put in all the land up
somewhere, because in general, the field is pretty buzzing.
Then last question is, any other softwares other than LTSpice and Verilog required for
ECE core?
I mean, like if you want to explore ECE core, I would really say you to download Vivado.
So Vivado is something that is used in industry also and is has also an academic license that
is provided to you by the institute so if you want
to really explore core then i would advise you to download vivado and try a few stuff there
and apart from that if you're talking just about internships and placement ltspice and verilog
are pretty much it so any project on ltspice and verilog would do a good favor in terms of se
that should be pretty much then don't have any projects so how should
i tackle to go to vlsa design uh okay so like vlsi design exactly is not what companies come for so
okay so like let me clear this myth actually what people think is uh they want to prepare for a
certain very specific thing in core and then they will land an internship there and then they will work for it but that's not usually how it happens you uh
you are only taught the basic things here so if you really want to go into vlsi design you'll have
to take a separate path where you let's say go out to the top journals in vlsi design and see what
work is actually going on that would actually uh like give you a perspective of where vlsi design and see what work is actually going on that would actually uh like
give you a perspective of where vlsi design is and then vlsi design courses are there on mptl also i
would say uh like core vlsa design there are courses on physical design that you can go into
but i wouldn't say it's necessary for interns in any way so like vlsi design is not exactly what
people ask they ask
you and log in digital stuff itself stuff that have been covered in your coursework they wouldn't
expect you to know vlsa design in order to be hired for vlsa design they teach you all the
stuff that's required for your job and if you are welcoming and of learning sorts then you should be pretty good to go.
Is computer architecture basics required for ECU? That depends.
So if you're in your third year, if you have completed your third year,
then your computer architecture courses would have been done by now.
So obviously they would expect you to get into computer architecture
and know some stuff there.
But even if it's not covered, it's surplus to actually have knowledge of computer architecture
because like the way it was it is taught even now in kgp is pretty outdated so they teach you stuff
like pipelining and all but like right now it's not where industry is in the states like it's
a building cpus or gpus so uh if you really want
to go into computer architecture take a different route take mptl or not even mptl take let's say
mit open course for that so pretty good resource that you can use like they have really good
courses on uh industry level computer architecture even uh like not industry level but let's say the
more recent ones than what kgp reaches if you have
time then you can really explore computer architecture it will always be a plus but
like if you're short on time and we take them there's no need to go into computer architecture
is cd c dot come for internship now that you would have to ask place
comes which company is coming or not don't think c dot comes c dot
click c dot is what come mechanical or chemical or electronics i don't even know
do you have do you guys have heard of this company no no i don't know no yeah i don't know uh that's the place comes maybe they'll be able to answer better companies like ti unlock digital
qualcomm do we need to learn dsa i mean programming beyond first year pds course no no no not needed
never needed so like if you have first year pds course and you know basics of c++ then it should
be okay only programming you need to learn and that would help you uh more than dsa is very low
so if you have working knowledge of very low that would help you more than DSA is very low. So if you have working knowledge of very long, that would be pretty good.
Yeah, that is, I think, pretty much.
Yeah, and I'm trying to keep in touch with the place comes better
than and also sign into the CDC notice board and if the water is there
and there are some extensions because during the making time and all
and even with the
CDC of course you have to log into your maybe 5060 times a day.
So there are extensions that can log in easily.
So don't waste time in on this stuff.
Just do this.
What to learn in digital profile?
Okay so like I mean I think for you guys also gotham might have taken the
digital course uh so all of your course stuff is pretty important and to be gone through
religiously i would say uh learn all that and then there are past year questions yeah you'll find so
if you go on to obviously i'll, it's one of the tickets.
It's in one of the core articles, but I just take out that link and share with you guys
in the chat box.
You can take it from it when online coding test start for this year as the place comes
to any suggestion for industry.
I don't think we would be able to give any insights on those guys in due ways.
For Indowise, I think they're readily taken in.
I mean, there are a lot of circular companies that are open for them.
And then they're readily taken in supply chain-based companies like ITC and HUL, P&G,
because they have pretty good knowledge of supply chain based companies like ITC and HEO and P&G because they have pretty good knowledge of
supply chain I think they cover good number of courses before the third year or second year
one point like I would like to add regarding this core thing is that usually many people don't
prefer core as seniors say because like core people are generally at least for chemical and
mechanical they're paid less when compared
to software guys so other thing is the opportunities in core have decreased over time but then like to
be honest the efforts you need to put in core is actually compared to your list because you do not
build anything from scratch you're already learning it as a part of your curriculum you just need to
brush up a few things and then uh actually explore a few other things to
make yourself uh eligible enough in this profile so this is one thing because like many people
uh go behind money but the thing is like if you're actually interested at least for chemical
initially you'll be paid less but then your pay would be increasing exponentially with your experience as you join the company.
Where to practice questions for the written test rounds of AC course companies?
Okay, so I'll just find the link and paste it here.
Give me a minute, just a second.
And one thing there's a like general thing that goes in campus that are like core students are like paid links.
That's why many of them don't like to go to core, but I would
say it like the longevity in core profiles is more than the
others. I'm not saying that's in general,
but yeah, because in software,
even if you're from tied to colleges,
they also have a very good competition with you.
So if you have a core mechanical profile,
I would stick to it.
And you have a very good labs there and you get
very nice practical enhanced skills
so if you are in a
company you get promoted
very fast and you are
obviously preferred over
the others so yeah
that's obviously a greater thing
you should keep in mind
and if I say
JLR for specifically so yeah, just a minute.
So JLR is expanding currently to the other parts of India.
They are keeping their testing bases, test bases,
and their manufacturing factories
are being set up in Tamil Nadu.
You may have heard the news on assembly industries
are also being set up.
There's always a larger scope if you join four companies at this point you're trying to shift to india
yeah so i was telling that i've pasted the link itself in the chat box so there you'll find all
the placement materials a lot of questions there you will not feel short of questions anytime
materials a lot of questions there you will not feel short of questions anytime soon i would say so you can practice it from there you can practice your aptitude questions i think they missed out on
i mean people usually do not take care of their aptitude when they're preparing for group code
profile but i would say that you should not uh let's say uh take it any lighter than whatever
you're preparing for code so aptitude is that common ground that
every company asks so do go to gfg and their puzzle section and every interviewer in every
interview till they ask from there only so there are some 80 puzzles or something just go through
them and try to like get yourself click on where what the logic is and what you need to answer when the question comes up.
Yeah, I think that JLAR also has an aptitude section,
so that's secured from the mechanical price too.
Thanks a lot to all the panelists.
I'm sure that this answer has a lot of gain. We have got a lot of gain from these answers.
Now, Janta, before we wrap up this seminar, we have got some exciting news to share.
We are organizing a panel discussion on data profile on 8 June, that is tomorrow, and we'd love to see you all there. Thank you.
Congratulations to all the panelists on their internship and thank you for the invaluable insights.
Immense gratitude to our engaging audience. Thank you so much.