Good evening, everyone. On behalf of Communique IIT Kharagpur, we are delighted to welcome you to the third day of Internship Training Week. I am Dhruv Gehalot, and alongside Prithvik Premkumar Shanmugam, I will be hosting today's panel discussion. Today, we focus on one of the most sought after career paths, consulting. We aim to provide valuable insights and tips to help you navigate this field successfully. We hope this discussion answers your questions and equips you with essential knowledge. At the end of the discussion, we will hold a Q&A session to address any remaining queries. Today, we have an extremely talented set of panelists who have backed internships in some of the most highly-represented companies. I take immense pleasure in introducing them to you. Our first panelist of the day is Mr. Manas Mohan Sharma, who is currently interning at McKinsey & Company. Manas, would you please introduce yourself to the audience? Manas, would you please introduce yourself to the audience? All right. So Manas Sharma, this side, I'm studying manufacturing science and engineering with a specialization in financial engineering. I'm a dual degree student, just finished my fourth year, moving into my fifth year. And yes, I'm currently interning at McKinsey & Co. Yeah, that's it. I think that's a brief introduction that works for now. Thank you, Manas. Our next panelist is Mr. Aorkodeep Mandal, who has just managed to bag an internship at Boston Consulting Group. Aorkodeep, please introduce yourself. Hey, thank you, Prithvik. Hi, everyone. This is Aorkodeep Mandal. I'm also a pre-final year student. I mean, not a pre-final year student anymore now that the results are out. I am from the Department of Electrical Engineering and pursuing a master's degree in Financial Engineering. And yes, I am currently interning in the Boston Consulting Group. Hope that helps. Thank you, Aorkodeep. Before diving into exciting discussions and presentations, I'd like to congratulate our panelists for landing such prestigious internships. Your achievements are truly inspiring. So, starting with the discussion. When was it that you explored and decided that you wanted to pursue consulting as your career paths um manas would you like to begin yeah i mean like in the back of my mind i had like always like inspired people who got into consulting so i think from induction that thought was there because i like actually respected some of the seniors in college and they got into consulting so I think the inception of getting into consulting came from there and I could like relate a lot with respect to the personality that I have I'm like really outgoing and all and I think the work that you do there requires for you to be a little bit like outgoing and it involves obviously like problem solving I had a little bit of business acumen there and i could identify it in the early stages because i was also a part of one dc consulting and uh yeah so like the inception came from the seniors but it also like aligned with the personality that i have and the interests that i have so in my second year itself i was like very keen on exploring this particular like domain of consulting. So I think that is how I started. And Aorkodeep? Yeah, so the standard KGP way, you put your hand in each and every sector and find out what's your niche. So yeah, just like probably most of the people here i started uh trying out different profiles from my very first year and by the time i was in my second year i had shortlisted a few things which probably i can be good at uh that being said i had major inclinations towards consulting and the qualitative aspect of finance uh talking about consulting i mean as Manas also said, it requires someone with a lot of rigor, someone who would like to innovate, solve problems. And I felt that was something really intriguing. Talking about myself, see what I felt differentiates consulting from probably most of the other parts of job is your work is not very static. You get to deal on pieces of problems that are very unique you get to work with industries different set of industries and again for someone who's starting his or her career i think this is one of the major uh plus points of consulting i mean you might uh look into some of the other domains get a stronghold in let's say one or two particular niches but uh essentially with consulting you get to explore the overall market in your very first two years and then you can take a call if consulting is right for you or if you want to switch to some other industry but you can take a very calculated call talking about consulting again uh because this requires you to put in a lot of hours this requires you to manage people manage yourself and i think that was something i was really good at and which is why this profile clicked to me yeah thank you so moving on to the next question what are the skills and experiences that you think are essential when it comes to a consulting profile? Orkut, would you like to take this one? Sure. So let me break it down into two sections. One with respect to the skill sets required during the time of selection and two with respect to the skill sets that you require once you are at job right so talking about the skill sets that you require prior to the job i mean basically at the time of selection is you should have a very structured approach to things i mean a major section where people evaluate you is on your case solving skill once you get a shortlist that it is i mean that is essentially everything that you need to go for in a consulting interview so what they essentially look for is how well you can structure your thoughts how well you can communicate them and the type of deep dive that you can take let's say on an industry level or let's say on a particular problem level so that a depth of thought is what exactly is needed at that particular level well talking about the things that you require once you're on job in terms of skills let's say see again a lot of what you do is a part of let's say a bigger picture of the smaller part of an analysis again, for analysis, there are particular tools which are very specific and subjective to the matter of problem. So, you should have an acumen of, let's say, business sense. You should have strong hold analytic skills. That is what I think is required. Apart from that, you should be prepared to clock in the hours that is required here. And to clock in the hours that is required here. And... Yes, please continue. Did you catch the question? Yeah, I got it. I think Pradeep, like, Aorkodeep covered most of it. And obviously, like, you need to know how to solve a case. You need to understand how businesses work, different industries work. I mean, it's not a prerequisite for you to know how every industry works, but I think you should have a general notion of how, like, businesses operate, how, you know, companies make money, how ideas can be monetized. I think, you know, stuff like that. With respect to experiences, I think majorly the experiences that would be required from you guys think you know stuff like that with respect to experiences i think majorly the experiences that would be required from you guys when you are like trying to get into consult is basically you handling organizations you navigating like conversations between like different organizations maybe you know managing people uh yeah i think like majorly managing people like understanding conversations navigating conversations between cross-functional teams. Obviously, if you have good strategy experiences, if you have worked on pieces which involve you making a strategy or understanding a strategy or doing an analysis for any operation i think that is something which helps as an experience yeah so like majorly that's it yeah so how do you build such experiences and those skills those particular skills like analysis problem understanding etc. right i think some part of it comes intuitively but but majorly it's practice. You go ahead, you practice. You go ahead and you do some internships, maybe you do some projects, which involve all these skills. So you don't learn it on a superficial basis by reading it. You actually have to exercise it in order to grasp that this is how it's done. This is how an analysis is done. This is how you read between the lines. This is how you break down problems. This is how it's done. This is how an analysis is done. This is how you read between the lines. This is how you break down problems. This is how you solve problems. It's more on the practice end. If you just take an initiative, if you try to learn it, practice it enough, I think you can develop it. Thank you so much. So moving on, consulting is generally considered like hand in hand with a lot of positions of responsibility. So, what are your thoughts on that and do they actually matter that much? Manas, would you like to go ahead? Right, right, right. I'll take this up as i said that you know it requires the consulting work requires you to like navigate relations between like cross-functional teams and all so let's just say if you have a POR (Position of Responsibility) in college you are navigating conversations between your team you are navigating conversations between the admin or like gymkhana just to like put it as an example so right so a POR in all essence is an implication that you can lead an organization you can manage people you can deal with your own team and you know external committees which are like responsible for the functioning of your society or the organization that you're leading so being an like executive head or leading an organization implies certain qualities which are obviously essential for you to break it into consulting. So I think it is a major aspect of you qualifying as a candidate. If you have led an organization or built an organization for that matter, it doesn't have to be a position of responsibility in a college organization itself. If you have shown skills of leadership if you have scone like shown initiatives of leading an organization and navigating conversations i think uh like it's going to reflect better on your profile and like it is important like in my opinion it's like really necessary for you to have that kind of a skill set and like show that kind of a skill set or if you have something again i also completely agree with manas uh see i mean when a third party looks at you i mean there's no direct way of checking if you are good at work if you are good at leading people at a college level and uh POR i mean makes the job quite easy because uh this is kind of a narrative of you uh putting in efforts going till the top i mean making some really good relations uh you know how to manage your relations with people you know how to put in long hours for something that might be not so important or probably not so interesting and probably on a day-to-day basis in the job of a consultant you will come across things like this so essentially having a POR kind of justifies that you are probably capable for this work again this is important but it is not the case that having a very good POR is a mandate. I mean, there are aspects to focus on. There are things called as spikes in a particular consulting CV. So if you do not have a very, very strong POR, I mean, that is, again, not a thing to worry. You can at least focus on the other aspects of it. But yes, given, I mean, that POR in itself is kind of important because again as I was saying this reflects that you have the necessary skill sets I mean the rest can be developed I mean analytical skills can be developed I mean a lot of the other skills let's say application to a particular software or the ease of accessing some other tool can be developed but this is one thing that is an inherent thing. So I think for that reason, PORs are quite important. Could you go into more depth about as in what were your PORs or explain it in the case of KGP? See, I mean, again, there's no good or bad POR as such. You get two experiences different things on different levels. Talking about my involvements here, I was a part of CDC as a student placement coordinator. And I also served there as a departmental representative. Apart from that, I was also a part of ESL. I was a general secretary at my hall. I was also there in SHARE for a year and I was also a part of Druheen (Bengali Dramatics Society). So, these were some of the things I was into and apart from that, I was also a part of the finance club at ITK. club at a particular school. All right. Just would like to add a little bit of comparison here in terms of like importance of position of responsibility. If you compare Aorkodeep's PORs with mine, the impact that his PORs can bring in are like significantly better than mine, right? So I was the governor of Prava. I would not say it's a bad POR. It's a really good POR, really interesting work that we do here but if you compare it with like Aorkodeep's POR the impact that he could have created being in that position can be like significantly better right but the essence here is you being able to lead an organization you being able to navigate conversations that is what just to put it out there so that like people uh who do not have like four five PORs do not get like disheartened and be like I'm like really back in the race but i mean it the point that matters is your overall profile but like having a POR helps and what about if someone what are the other things that can compensate like I mean if someone has this PORs right so there is no like replacement for a specific thing right if you if you look at it so if you compare all the profiles that got internships and consulting, they would all be very different. If you look at Orkut's profile, if you look at my profile, they are way apart, right? So it is not about a replacement for a specific thing. It's about the combination of things that you put on your CV, right? I might not have like three PORs or very impactful PORs, right? But I might have something that goes with my POR which adds more impact. So the storyline needs to make sense. The combination of things that you make, like put on your CV has to make sense. And an overall impact is created when you see all the things which like are on your CV and they align well. That is it. Again adding on to that uh Manas was talking about the storyline that your cv uh shows to i mean people seeing it uh there are certain aspects in your cv where you can focus on i mean as again i said there are spikes that people usually look for in a consulting cv uh the spikes can be i mean academic spikes you can do really well in let's say your academics you can do really well in Olympiads you might be having publications with yourself right uh you might be doing really good in some competitive examination that is an academic spike you can be really good at your work you might be having some really good brand interns or probably very impactful roles in whatever organizations you have served. Well, POR, of course, is one of the good things to have. You can be really, really good in your extracurricular activities. You might be having, let's say, achievements at the international or let's say at the national level. You might be having a very, very unique skill set that no one has. you might be having a very, very unique skill set that no one has. You can ask Manas. He has some really good niches on the extracurricular front, which I'm pretty sure people do not have in general. Apart from that, you can also, I mean, do really well in some entrepreneurial activities or competitions. Right. So these are some things that you can also focus on apart from the PURs. Not that, I mean, there is something to compensate for it, but it is just that you need an overall profile that goes well. Thank you for your answers. Aorkodeep, I think you just mentioned about entrepreneurial activities can you please brief us more about that right I mean if you're doing something creative if you're doing something you know innovative that is I think any day a requirement for a consulting firm I mean the very basic and the most important thing to do in a consulting job is to innovate so if you have demonstrated your skill set in this particular aspect it really shows that you know about the bigger picture you have seen a lot of the aspects that a business will go through right apart from that i mean it's not a mandate to have an entrepreneur real experience or something of that sort but it is just that if you have done this particular job you probably have an expertise on a lot of things that will be required on your day-to-day job. Okay, that's great. So, could you explain more about the academic spike? Manas, would you like to take that up? Manas, would you like to take that up? So like academic, when you say academic spike, I think it can be like a good CG maybe. If you have a good CG, like if you are top five in your department, that could be a spike. If you already are one, two, three, that could be a spike. If you're talking about CG, if you have done maybe like NTSC, if you're NTSC if you're KVPY qualified or some any other Olympiad for that matter right or maybe if you have cracked some like exams uh or national level some certifications that you have that are you know difficult to crack in all essence when like an academic spike can be anything where you have shown that you have cracked something on a very competitive level right if you get if you get a good cg like if you are the dr1 you have cracked something on a very competitive level right if you get a if you get a good cg like if you are the dr1 you have complete you have you have had competition in your department and you have excelled you have performed way better than everyone else right so that is a spike that can be considered as a spike if you have cleared NTSC if you have cleared KVPY that is a spike because you have performed well in a competitive environment if you've cracked an exam. I think mostly that. So, moving on. So, Manish, you mentioned that a combination of things is what makes one for consult. So, how should one prepare for a consulting and create such a unique plan? Right. So I think the preparation involves a lot of things. So obviously the preparation involves you doing cases, you doing case preps. It involves you prepping yourself for behavioral questions, HR questions. It involves you building a good CV. And I cannot emphasize enough on building a good CV. Because making a CV is a very strategic thing that you need to do. You need to be sure of what you want to put on your CV and also what to not put on your CV. Because the storyline is very important when it comes to consulting. So it is said that whenever, and it's very logical, whenever someone looks at your cv they are going to go from top to bottom and from left to right so you just make your cv in a way that looks impressive enough when they start so let's just say you have a section if you have an internship section and you think that is not my best you know my best section or that is not as impressive as it should be right so you don't put it on the top, right? You put it somewhere in the bottom and you start with maybe like projects or maybe publications or maybe, you know, academic achievements, right? Because they'll start looking at your CV from top to bottom. And obviously, when you put forth your work in your CV, it has to reflect impact. It has to reflect what you have done because people don't have a lot of time for like reading CVs, right? They get like 700 like 700 800 CVs they won't be just sitting there and reading every CV right it's a very like fast screening process in general so making a good cv and to know what to put there and not is like really important so yeah and like in the general process for making cv is you make draft, you make a list of everything that you've done, and like you send it to seniors, you ask for their feedback, reiterate it like multiple times. And that is how you like build your CV and whatever like incorporate the inputs that they give and like reiterate it again and again, with respect to like CV building. If you want to add something on that. Right. With respect to like CV building. If you want to add something on that. Right. Right. So as Manas was saying. The CV that you make for your consulting profile. Is very strategic. And in fact. The consulting CV in itself is a thing. I mean it's very different from probably. Some of the other profiles where you have a CV. And let me just put it this way. The usual time. Probably a selector a recruiter let's say looks at your cv in consulting is 5 to 10 seconds right it doesn't take more than that so your cv needs to be loud enough to tell the recruiter that yes i am the one to look forward to so you need to have things written in a manner that in a span of five to ten seconds they are impressed right as again Manas was saying uh the cv is read on a top to bottom kind of thing and left to right kind of thing so it is always strategic to have the best parts on the very top of your cv right and again uh the cv in a consulting profile is again impact driven. So it is better to have your impact numbers towards the left side of your CV so that they can be read quite easily. And it is also important to highlight your impact so that anyone looking at it gets to know a gist of what you have been doing. at it gets to know a gist of what you have been doing right again you can follow a star approach where you generally talk about the storytelling of what exactly was the experience like right you talk about the situation you were put into you talk about your measures you talk about the actions and the final result the end goal is to check how much impact you have delivered on a particular task that was assigned to you. So yeah, I think that is more or less about the consulting CV. Talking about the preparation for a consulting role, again, this is majorly divided into two factors. One, the CV preparation. Two, the case preparation. And the major part of this, let's say, is again a timeline-based thing where you prepare for your CV in the earlier days, get it checked from your seniors, refine on your content. Alongside, you also form case groups where you, I mean, take up cases on a regular basis from different industries, different problem statements. And, I mean, take up cases on a regular basis from different industries, different problem statements. And, I mean, that is how it is. All right. So, what are some resources that you can suggest for our reference? Yeah, go ahead. Yeah, sure. All right. So talking about CV preparation, reach out to people who are currently working. I mean, your seniors who are currently interning or probably plus one or two from yours who probably landed a job there. They would be able to guide you better on how the CV should look like. Talking about the case preparation, you can start with the case interview cracks playlist which is on YouTube. It is a five video series which will give you a brief about the type of cases that you might see during an internship phase. Then, it is essential to form a case group where you can have a lot of sources. I mean, the general popular ones are the IAM Ahmedabad casebook, the IIT Bombay casebook. There are casebooks from SRCC, LSR and whatnot. You can also refer this source, Look Over My Shoulders by Victor Cheng, right? The essential part here is to develop that sense as you practice cases, right? Do not read out cases. Of course, you can do that once or twice while you are starting just to get a gist of how it works. But don't waste your cases. You will find different insights. You will find different ways of driving the case once you practice with people. So, it is again subjective to the amount of time you would like to dedicate here. It is always suggested that you do like some cases on a daily basis. And then you put a major chunk of your time on analyzing the cases, looking for alternative solutions, looking for ways where you could have gone right, where probably you took a very wrong turn. So that is how it goes. That was really extensive and insightful. Thank you. So now could you walk us through the basic selection process of your consulting role and what are the different rounds and the sort of questions asked? Manas, would you like to begin? Yeah, I can start. I think it's slightly different for every other company that comes. I'll tell you for McKinsey, and I think Aorkodeep can take it up for BCG and all. So for McKinsey, obviously, the first process is a CV shortlisting. You apply and your CV gets shortlisted. Once you're shortlisted, you have to give a test, which is basically a gamified game solve test where you basically have an ecosystem. You have to design an ecosystem by selecting the altitude, the temperature, and some species there and create a sustainable ecosystem there. So that is what basically like the test is and there's a second part of the test which is basically quant driven you have to do some analysis some numbers and some basic calculations it's not very difficult but yeah this is a test and i think like on the basis of the test they evaluate what are your strong points where you do good and where you don't and i think like in the interview they try to test you on the parts where you did not do good in the test right and after the game there's obviously like the interviews on like day one so that is what the process for McKinsey is all right talking about the process at BCG (Boston Consulting Group) i mean, on the basis of your CVs, you get an initial round of shortlist, right? Post which you're allotted two buddies, one being your primary buddy, who is probably new to the firm and is probably very close to you, right? And a senior buddy who would be able to help you better with your doubts that that are very specific to the firm and the type of work they do uh so it is very important that you uh gel well with your uh buddies try to gain as much help you can from them uh again buddy rounds are non-evaluative but again it is very important that you do not just mess up in front of them be prepared before you say something be prepared before let's say you have a case with them they are the ones who will guide you well on the type of preparation on your weak points on your strong points things to focus right so keep the process very transparent with them once you are done with that there are several rounds of screenings which are generally hierarchical where initially you probably have a managerial round being. You probably have a case round with a manager at the firm. Then probably you will have a round with a partner. And then, I mean, followed by that, you'd probably have a round with an MDP or an MDSP. And there are pointers that they usually follow and on the basis of rounds, they can be again, the scores can be cumulative or again on a basis of eliminatory scenario depending on the rounds of that particular session but yes, that is more or less it I mean, basis on the scores that you usually receive in each and every rounds on the number of reads that you have, you planned up an offer. Yeah, so just adding on to the buddy rounds being non-evaluative. So I can say for a fact that buddy rounds at McKinsey are non-evaluative because I did really, really bad in my buddy round. But obviously, you can be very transparent with what you lack at with your buddies and try to take as much as help from your buddies because obviously they have experience and they can guide you throughout the process and they can help you with anything that is required in the process. So be very transparent with your buddy. And obviously, I mean, be prepared and show growth whenever you're talking to them on a recurring basis. That's it. Manish, the test that you talked about seems very abstract, like creating an ecosystem. So how exactly do you prep for it? So, I mean, you don't prep for it because there's no way you can prep for it, right? I mean, you don't have a similar type of a setup that is available publicly for you to go ahead and practice it, right? So, it's just about, you know, doing an analysis on how you can create a food chain. It's a basic problem that you need to have, you know, like branches, you need to have like some organization like some organism which feeds all some organism which gets fed and then feeds on something and maybe like then some so you have to basically make a tree and that is what like majorly problem solving is you just like break it down into multiple parts and then you solve for each part i think it's not a very difficult test so as to say you just have to like use your presence of mind and just do it and on the go okay and in these interview rounds and tests how are communication skills created like definitely i think communication skill is really important and how you put forth your personality and how you establish your personality in the interview is really important because I'm pretty sure whoever gets in has like done the case well what makes you stand out is your personality and how you represent yourself so you have to be like the best presentation of yourself in the interview with respect to your communication with respect to your personality and obviously you have to solve the case good and like especially in McKinsey I think the first 15 minutes is spent on you know talking about yourself talking about your experiences and your CV and then they give you a case that you have to solve so it starts with a introductory session. I think they make you a little bit comfortable and talk about your experiences which you are like confident in because obviously you have made your CV, you have done the job, so you know that is your niche. So I think they start with 15 minutes of a conversation about you getting to know you better, and then they give you a case. So that is how the interview is like for McKinsey. Thank you for your answer and I will be going on to the next question. So coming to the next question, what is the ideal CG for the role of a consultant? I believe this is one of the most important questions today. Aorkodeep, would you like to answer? There's no ideal CGPA as such, right? But again, I mean, just from the recruiter's perspective, there are like thousands of CVs that they're receiving, right? And it becomes really, really tough to go through each and every CV. So that is probably one of the filters that they apply to make their job easier. Not that there aren't people with lower CGs who are probably good at this. It is just that it becomes easier for them to put an initial matrix, right? So it is generally good to have a CGPA that's probably higher than your batches average. I mean, that being the minimum requirement, in my opinion, a very, very good CGPA showing your academic rigor and showing that you're really, really competitive on the academic front is really good to have a spike in that. However, I mean, it is advisable that you have a decent enough CGPA, but there's no cutoff as such. Right. It is advisable that you have a decent enough CGPA, but there's no cutoff as such. So, Manus, would you like to add something to this? Bhai, I literally don't know. This is as honest I can get. I don't know what the ideal CGPA is, but obviously it depends upon the cohort, like Aorkodeep said. It depends upon the people who are applying, right? Because they have to put a filter before they start shortlisting CVS, right? They can't just go through every other CV, right? Because there is no specific cutoff that they mentioned officially. I'm pretty sure like internally the filter it out. Like, you know, they put a filter, they look for like 400 CVS. They put a 8+ CGPA filter or maybe 8.5 plus CGPA filter and then they look at if you filter it from 8.5 and they get 200 CVs and they get 30 decent CVs I'm pretty sure they're not going to look at other CVs right so if they can get candidates who have scored more than like 8.5 plus in their academic journey and also have the relevant experiences i don't think they're going to drill down beyond that so it majorly depends upon the cohort and obviously as orca said it's more of a you can think of it as a recruiter's mindset key how would they approach it right so there's no ideal CGPA but obviously i mean keep it eight plus at least And, Aorkodeep, you mentioned that you should know the average batch CG. So is there a particular number statistically or do we just have to ask our friends? You will just get a sense of what the average looks like around you. But just by talking to people, you need not have a very analytical piece in hand. And I'm pretty sure if things run fine, you will never get that data as well. It is just good to have a sense. And I mean, it would be better if you don't fall in a situation where you're comparing your CG with the average of the cohort. It would be better if you are much above that on any given day. Right. So, does it matter if I have a circle branch or not? With respect to my academics. Manas is from mechanical, I am from electrical and we are both into consulting. I think that really answers your question and that is one of the best things about consulting. There's no cap on departments or degrees. They just want people who are really, really innovative. And innovation can come from anyone, from any department. And that is essentially what consulting is all about. So there's no bias in department. And again, there's nothing like a circuit or a non-circuit benefit when it comes to consulting thank you for that so would you like to suggest something that students can do if their CGPA is not up to the mark Hi, I'm telling you. Okay, I mean, again, right? So, your CG might be, you know, lesser than like other people. So, it's more, your CGPA is more about your CV being addressed and seen by the recruiter right if your cg is not cutting it there is a possibility the recruiter might not look at your cv because they are going to put a filter out right but if you it's not going to be a huge problem if your cg is not up to the mark but if your profile you know so if you if your CG is low but if you can show that you have like you have a publication right or if you can show that you know you have certain like you have cracked certain examinations like you have certain certifications like CFA, FRM right or you've done some publication so there has to be an alternative to like implicate that you know you are academically smart, right? Higher CG means that you are academically smart. If you don't have a ideal CGPA, you'll have to have something that implicates the same thing. So that is what essentially I would advise, but. I mean, you never know. Got it, thank you so much. So moving on. So since consulting is a very heavily wanted profile, what is something that someone should do that is not, that if they do not manage to back in a consulting intern, what is a backup they should have? If they do not manage to bag a consulting intern, what is the backup they should have? I would like to take this forward. Again, I mean, that is completely up to you. It's not the case that I want to go for a consult and I do not get an intern from CDC, so I just switch my profile. If you think consult is what you are made for, you're made for it. You look for alternative sources, you look for alternative job roles which are probably driven towards strategy or probably other means of getting into it. Or probably you look for a bigger picture when you target this again during your placements. If you think consult is what you want for yourself, then just go for it. If you think there are things that you're really good at and would like to take a switch and you're fine with it then i mean of course you can keep that as a backup and when i say backup it completely is on your interest level let's say you really love product you can go for that profile let's say you really love finance you can go for that profile let's say you really are a tech guy you can probably again keep software as your backup and honestly people at consult they have really diverse sets of backgrounds there's no fixed profile as such that people in consult come from that is really diverse and again the backup profile that people usually keep for at least people keep a backup profile that people usually keep for at least people who keep a backup profile that can again be completely on their expertise and interests so i don't think there's any ideal alternative profile as such uh thank you for your answer um minus any add-ons? I mean, yeah, exactly. Whatever alternative profiles you look for backup is something that you should have certain inclination to. I mean, it might vary from person to person, wherever their interest lies in. But I would say, for CDC itself, I think you should look at it as an opportunity to explore right you if you like fixate a little early on what you want to do i think you are killing the innocence so i would just recommend to not like you know get into key and you know i need to get a good internship i need to get a PPO (Pre-placement Offer) i need to get a job so that is something that i would like definitely not recommend but i would say if there is something that you can do if you have the capability to do if you get finance intuitively if you get consult intuitively if you get data like intuitively right go ahead with the best opportunity that CDC has to offer do not fixate on key i want to do consulting and I'll only do consulting right if you get a good consulting intern well and good if you get a good data intern well and good any intern that you get is like actually going to add up to your learning experience right wherever you work if you work at a good firm in any domain that experience is going to be exciting that experience is going to be enriching and obviously post that you can decide if this is something that you want for yourself or not and then maybe like sit for placements and choose a role that actually like you know excites you and you want to work in that domain i think you should approach it from this angle according to me thank you for your answer going on to the next question so they say that mistakes are the best teachers. What mistakes do you think you have made during your intern season? Or what things do you realize now that you could have done better? Orkut, would you like to take this one first? Yeah, definitely. Alright, so one of the key mistakes people do is they read out a lot of cases. They hesitate to reach out to people. They feel that they are doing fine. But honestly, they are not doing fine at that situation. It will cost you at a later stage. Right, so the major part of a consulting job in itself is interacting with a lot of people. And if you are lacking that skill then probably if not today you will probably fail not fail i mean that's a very heavy work you will probably not be a fit or you would not like your work as a consultant right reach out to as many people as you can people generally uh shy away from that uh make case groups uh nudge your buddies take their schedules align them with yours make some time sit together do cases on a regular basis you might have a lot of groups you might have a lot of prep buddies involve them into this try different types of cases I see a lot of people at times the objective gets transferred to I want to show that I am doing good more than that I make a mistake but I learn so there are people who probably want to over perform in front of their friends and they make a stronghold in a particular type of case and they want to practice on that but that is not ideal right you need to turn your weaknesses into your strengths because you do not know what type of a case, what industry you will get during your final interview. It's fine to show that you're not doing well. But what is not fine is not improving yourself. Try out different type of cases, even if that experience is very embarrassing, even if your first impression for someone is really, really bad. Right? Try out things, reach out to people, getices implement them i think that is one of the major mistakes that people don't do talking again about a very specific incident that i feel a lot of people who are preparing will feel or probably have already felt that uh It becomes really tough at times when you are probably lost in a case and you do not know how to get away with it. You shoot random questions, you shoot questions that are directionless or probably you make a very huge communication gap where you are thinking something but the one who is listening is probably out of the case by then right so again it is very important to have your sports structured to have the communication line on right uh you can think through a lot of things and again that comes from a lot of practice the more you practice the better you get at it but again uh it is very important that you keep the communication flow on and apart from that one major mistake i feel people do is they fixate on things let's say a profitability case they look at the framework they memorize it here I'll break it down into this this this bucket and then I'll proceed each and every case in itself is very unique. You can have a very I mean a very brief skeleton in mind but your storyline should not be framed on a skeleton. Again you can have a storyline in mind you might need a skeleton to execute that. Make it ad hoc right. So do not fixate ki yaar is kare se agar revenue break karunga ye karunga toh ho jayega. Every case in itself is very unique. Try to take a deep dive on the case and So do not fixate that if I break in revenue like this, I will do this, I will do that. Every case in itself is very unique. Try to take a deep dive on the case and then proceed with a way to solve it. So I think these are some of the things that people need to focus on. Manas would like to take this forward. Yeah, I mean it's like really crucial what like or could it says, because I mean, there's no way you can quantify your progress, right? I mean, even like if you are like coding, maybe let's just say if you're coding, you can see what like reading of problems you're getting done, right? What is your rating on a certain platform, and you can quantify the progress that you're doing. But when you're preparing for consult, there's no not there's no click quantification of the progress that you're making. So it's always recommended to practice more and more. Because again, you never know what problem you are going to get in the interview. So leverage all your buddies, leverage all your friends, and practice as much as possible. And I think Aorkodeep focused on customizing your own frameworks. Don't be fixated on your frameworks. Again, that again implies that you need to practice you need to practice again and again and you need to practice more and then you need to analyze right so if you have enough practice if you have enough exposure you'll know the trick because it's a trick in the end it's a trick you need to customize with respect to the industry you need to customize with respect to you know whatever framework that you're using right and with You need to customize with respect to the industry. You need to customize with respect to, you know, whatever framework that you're using, right? And with respect to the industry, with respect to the revenue streams, whatever, there isn't the problem. So that comes with enough practice. So, yeah. And apart from that, I would say don't like put all your eggs in one basket. That is what I think. I personally did because I prepped for consult a lot and my backup profile was finance because i have a specialization in financial engineering so i was prepping for finance but for some reason i couldn't give much time to my preparation right and i was not able to prep like significant because i was not i knew that finance interviews I'm not going to clear because i was not at par with respect to my skill set. And if I had not gotten an internship in the consulting domain, I would not have a good internship. And I had to wait for other companies to come because there are limited opportunities in consulting. So I would say always have a plan B, always have a safety net and always prepare for multiple profiles to the same extent. Because it's a game of luck. After extent right because it's a game of luck after a point it's a game of luck even if you do the best thing even if you give the best interview even if you uh you know solve the case in the best way possible there's a there is a possibility that you might get chucked out there's a possibility you might not get the so yeah just have backup that's it absolutely thank you so much this was really extensive the next question so what would what is a specific advice you would give to someone aspiring for your companies man is for m McKinsey? I mean, it's not very different with respect to the company. I mean, obviously, the evaluation process is somewhere tweaked up and down with respect to different firms. But in all essence, you need to know how to solve problems. You need to have good problem-solving skills. You need to have good case-solving skills. You need to know how to be MISI. You need to know how to communicate top-down skills you need to know how to be me see you need to know how to communicate top down you know you need to know how to be structured in your communication and obviously your personality uh you need to you know you need to know why do you want to do consulting right you need to actually understand what is your reason for you to get into consulting and that has to be genuine right because if you bullshit in front of the interviewer he would know that you're bullshitting because he's a better bullshitter than you right so you actually need to know why do you want to do this and you actually need to prep like and in the same i think it aligns for every like consulting firm you need to know you need to know how to do cases and you need to know how to communicate that's it know you need to know how to do cases and you need to know how to communicate that's it or could you would you like to add something right again i mean as man is said uh there's no specific i mean there are specific company uh advices as such but the gist of it remains the same i mean if you want to be a problem solver, if you want to be someone to innovate, if you want to be someone to work with top-level executives, consulting is the place for you. Places might be different. I mean, McKinsey, BCG, Bain, L.E.K., or some other firm. Places might be different. But more or less, the job stays the same. You will get to work in different practice areas. And I think that is the case with all the firms. Again, the number of cases inclined towards a particular section might be different. The hierarchy of the firm, the pace at which you grow, that again might be different. But talking about people aspiring to be at BCG or, I mean, McKinsey, I don't think that's very specific as such. Be good at solving cases at this level. Be a fun person. I mean yeh nahi ki masti karo joke maro. But at least be a person someone would like to have around. Have a good personality. I think that is it. Yeah, so just to just to put out an instance there so when I entered the panel for my interview at McKinsey the first thing that the interviewer told me that hey man you've got a nice suit there right and I mean I was like caught off guard a little I did not know what to say but I just like replied back you know okay I mean it's a big day for me I'm like interviewing for McKinsey so I have to bring in the A game. You look fresh nonetheless. As you said to me, that I look fresh nonetheless, right? So you just need to know how to put yourself in those situations and how you represent yourself in those situations. So I think that gets you brownie points, as I said. Cases to sab acha solve karenge yaar. Whoever is going to get in, they know how to do cases. So you need to have this kind of a thing to, you know, set yourself apart. See, again, I mean, the one who is Cases too, everyone will solve it well. never know how that person is right be a good person be fun to be with he always keep a smile on your face that is the least that you can do and apart from that i mean be yourself i mean you need not uh frame yourself into someone that you are not just to please someone but again i mean be yourself and be a good person that's it in that particular sense i I mean, Manish, you said that you wanted to do consulting. Why is it that consulting intrigued you? Again, so, yeah, that is, so my approach to it was that I like problem solving and I always wanted to know which is the domain which is going to offer me continuous learning, right? So if I got into data, there would be some saturation after a point right i know all the algorithms now i know how to code maybe i know how to implement certain models right if i do coding it's going to be the same it's if i do finance i think it might be something which is giving me you know like enriching me with some knowledge giving me good experiences now and then so i think consulting is something that i saw as an opportunity to go ahead and learn about different industries and i for now was not ready to fixate on a specialized job right so consulting is not a specialized job it's a generalized job right so you you go ahead you work in different industries for like five months and then you hop onto a different industry and then you get context, you learn about that industry and solve the problems that there are. So I was more into getting into a generalized role and then fixate on something that is a specialized role after gaining some experience in that particular domain and understanding how that industry works. And Aorkodeep, what about you? Yeah, as I answered in the very beginning uh see talking about consulting i mean as uh manas also said there's no saturation i mean every day you get a new challenge every day you think on a new piece every day you try to solve a problem that is probably troubling the company for years right so that is the magnitude of problem that you are dealing with and it requires the fresh approach it requires you to actually think through you go there you do the same thing every day not that i'm pointing out on some sector but uh i mean that is probably a job a lot of people do and to me that didn't seem very sustainable over a long period of time right if there isn't a kick in the job then probably i will not be able to sustain that for my lifestyle again i mean just because you're getting an intern that doesn't mean you fixate this as a profile that you will be looking at the exact reason of getting an intern is to get exposure more than you trying to get a PPO i think it's more important that you try to see if consult is the thing for you try to explore if uh i mean people who are there for a long time are really working uh the way you are planning to work if they are able to sustain the lifestyle that you are planning to do if the work is actually uh i mean if the work is really nice if the work is something that you would like to take on for years this is really a good opportunity to test on that all right so for the next question now everybody over here knows that your companies are very well reputed and we are all intrigued by your work culture can you please tell us a bit about it and the type of work that both of you do manas would you like to go first yeah i mean like talking about the work culture i think i really like it so in like I'll start with the job roles right so? So there is a very like differentiation between the designation that you have in a company and like in consulting company and the role that you have in a case team, right? So your designation is very different than your role in the case team. So your case team involves just like two, three hierarchies. There is a director, there is a manager and there are associates. So even though I'm an intern I'm an associate on the case so someone who's working there as a manager is can be a partner can be a can be an engagement manager anything any designation he might have in the firm but the role that he's going to play in the case team is to be a manager so that is what like my role is my I'm working in like very similar trajectory to an associate he goes to meet his own clients i go to meet my own clients i gather data from them i try to get insights obviously i get it reviewed by them i get it reviewed by my supervisors and then i present my work and then the analysis is done but i mean it's the exposure that you get like in McKinsey is very like front desk and very like front end you are actually out there trying to solve a problem and you are giving like you are given the whole ownership of the problem you will be assigned a problem and then they will not like talk to you about anything they'll just like expect a plan and they'll expect you to go and like take initiative and solve it. You tell them what is required and what needs to be done. And then they'll help you with that. How do you achieve it? So a lot of ownership is given. And I think work culture, I mean, work hours are hectic. Hectic apart from that, I think the team always tries to have fun. The team always tries to go out to play some sports. My team specifically. A lot of people in my team like to play badminton. And once in a while, they plan an offside where they go on a vacation when, you know, the workouts get a lot hectic. So, yeah, I mean, things like these happen once in a while to cheer up the case team and obviously when it gets very hectic for them to handle the work. I think that's all for now. Mr. Dev? Again, at VCD, the experience is quite similar to that of Manas. I mean, there are people who are divided into modules on a particular case. Module is basically a sub part of a very big problem. So again, I mean, the ownership that you get on problem is really massive and again within the team there's a very flat hierarchy i mean even someone who's there for like five to six years would be operating at a similar level if let's say there's some analysis where you find uh that there can be some improvement you can directly tell that out and that particular person on most of the occasions will also take that into consideration even though you are just an intern right so the seniority especially in consult is not a thing that we ever feel it's more about providing value to our customers over having internal conflicts of anything of that sort. Again, I mean, the job requires you to put in a lot of hours, clock in a lot of hours, which is why there are some things that get compromised, as in the time that you get to enjoy otherwise. Which again is compensated by people at the firm. They always joke around. I mean, they try to keep the whole environment Which again is compensated by people at the firm. They always joke around. I mean, they try to keep the whole environment very friendly for you to be there for the overall duration. And that is, I think, how it goes around in all the case teams. And apart from that, there are like case team outings where you plan events for weeks. You visit places with your team. You often go out on KC dinners. I mean, in my case, we take the lunch time as a time when we would not talk about work and talk about things that are fun. We have our lunches together. Apart from that, I mean, even during my very second week, we went on a karaoke night. week we went on a karaoke night and uh i mean two days back we had a work from office day where we were uh playing games uh at the office we had a soupy night we even had a comedy show from so all in all uh just because the work in itself is very demanding and tiresome there are things in the work itself uh to cool you down i mean you will enjoy the work definitely if you like the work of course you are expected to uh deliver at a very high stake but that being said the work in itself is really uh fun because the people around you make this really fun right talking about the work culture i cannot emphasize enough on there being a flat hierarchy in terms of there are people in various seniorities but again i mean my partner any day would listen to an advice that i have on a particular piece of case right that is the amount of ownership that you have and the type of authority that you have on a case so i think uh that pretty much sums it up. Workers are long, but people are really, really good. That sounds really exciting. So I'd like to thank the both of you for this really informative session. I really believe that this would help out a lot of prospective consultants out there. So Janata, now we'll open the floor for questions. Please put your questions in the chat box. so we'll start answering so the first question is do top consulting firms hire students outside CDC Off-campus? Firstly, talking about PCG, there is also a system of lateral entry and people, I mean, get there at multiple stages. I mean, you can get an intern there, you can get a full-time offer post your college life. You can probably also take a B-school route and get there. And again, as I said, lateral entry. So there are multiple avenues when you can be a part of this team there are also some outside consultants who work with you there are again multi-functional teams working together at least in case of BCG there's BCG-X there's gamma this plating and there are a lot of teams working together right so again that being said uh at an intern level uh it is really tough to get to the firm outside of this UDC internships not that it's not possible but again emphasizing on the point it is tough and this is the ideal route that is usually looked for students in the target schools and I mean when I talk about target schools for interns uh in most of the cases these are the top IITs and the top I interns, in most of the cases, these are the top IITs and the top IMs in most of the cases. All right. So can you please tell our audience some exact questions that you were asked in your interview? Manish, would you like to take this one? i mean like so there's no point like of me sharing what exactly i was asked because it was very relevant to like my candidature and relevant to my profile right if i tell you i was asked like what did you do at orangewood labs that is not going to help you but like in all essence i think you should be prepared with respect to you know what you put on your c, I think you should be prepared with respect to what you put on your CV. I think you should know what your CV looks like. What have you put on your CV and you need to be acquainted with all the work that you're doing. So sometimes it happens that you might have done an internship and you're back. And you might not actually remember how exactly you did that. So it's better to prep uh your cv before you're in like you know interviews uh have a basic set of behavioral questions practiced HR questions practiced you know basic questions that are frequently asked which is basically why consulting why you and what are the some like qualities that you have which you know aligns with consulting what are your strength weakness like basic questions that you need to be acquainted with. This helps you develop a thought process and helps you introspect what you have. It's important for you to go through these questions and prep your CV and do cases. I think that is something that is going to be more helpful rather than me telling you what I was asked. Just that. Great. Or could you, would you like to add something? In my opinion, these are things to, I mean, break the ice. They just want to keep the communication flow going and make you comfortable. That is why people usually have a conversation in your round. Also, I mean just to know a bit more about you in uh i mean apart from my CV and what i am uh in one of my BCG rounds i had a very good conversation with one of the interviewers who happened to be from it Delhi we were talking a lot about the campus life how this has changed what are the things that are similar in one of my rounds in McKinsey the interviewer asked me about my future goals how he has been aligning with the firm what are the key things I mean basically you conversations can range from anywhere to anything they just want to test you on how well you are prepared on a day which is so important for you. If you can think beyond a particular thing, if I mean more or less it is just to make you comfortable and know a bit about you. Thank you so much. There's often said that there's a toxic culture in the consulting companies. I mean, you've technically answered it, but still, is there any sort of similar truth on it? Wait a second. When did we say that? We did not answer it. No, you did not say that. It's very good it's a rumor that's been around for a very long time i mean obviously you're expected to deliver you know on time and sometimes the work is so it's the work is actually very challenging at times and it takes for you it takes a lot of time for you to do the analysis think of something which is very creative try to solve the problem align it with the client that is what they say align I've heard like a line 120 times probably today itself from like my associates and managers so you have to do a lot of things and sometimes it gets very hectic and i think that is a price you pay for living in five-star hotels and taking Vistara flights and, you know, getting a cab to pick you up. And, you know, so there are perks that is given to you just to make sure that you are the most comfortable when you're working for the firm. And obviously, you have to meet deadlines. So, that is that. It's not toxic. So, as to say, you can say it's challenging and a little bit hectic. That's it. Aur ku? Yeah, I think I also have a similar point on this as of Manas. I mean, again, the work is very, very challenging. And for that reason, it might feel toxic, although it is not. At least in my case, i have always had my teeth back whenever i felt overwhelmed right so rumor to yeh bhai hai ki that we only sell ppt which is not very true honestly speaking as i was talking to i didn't even touch a slide yet on my three weeks of internship so uh yes the work is challenging but again i mean uh see consult takes care of each and everything that you have in your life apart from work so that you can completely deliver on your work, right? When there's a compromise on that aspect, that is probably something that needs to be rectified. Again, people are really, really supportive and constructive in giving you feedbacks so that you can constantly upscale yourself. in giving you feedbacks so that you can constantly upscale yourself. And see, I'm not very sure why this is also toxic because I didn't feel it during my three weeks as of late. And as far as I have spoken to my co-interns, I don't think anyone is having an experience of that sort. And in the selection process, is there any bias against dual degree students here it's just that people might have more on their plates that is it apart from that i mean of course see consulting firms also requires people who are good at problem solving and they look for a longer term goal not here so let me just go for him or her right they look for a bigger picture which is why it is also known by them they are probably if someone is a four-year course guy he or she might have done less because of the time he or she has spent in campus. So these things are also taken care of. End of the day, it depends on how well you perform, how well you do in your cases. But I don't think there's a direct bias or something of that sort. Levels are set accordingly. Yeah. And that's. OK, what would be your advice on maintaining communication with the Placecomms? I mean, you're part of the Placecomms. Bro, they don't respond only, bro. Is that the case, Manas? No, man. I mean, I don't get your question. Specifically, your question was... I mean, obviously, it's for Orkut, but I don't understand. question. What specifically your question was. I mean, obviously it's for Orkut, but I don't understand. Can you just reframe it in a better way? It's by someone in the audience. Yeah, I think I get a sense of what the person is asking. I mean, how do you communicate with the place com on that particular day for your interview slots and all, right? So, I mean, again, it's a two-way thing. From the Placecomm wala part also, I mean, we also want people to sit for the interviews, right? We cannot keep the panels empty and all of that. So, you also want to give an interview. Place coms also want you to get that interview done ASAP. And, I mean, see, on my day of interview more than being a place com I was there as a candy rate I was getting constant calls from places here this interview is going on you need to reach here you need to reach here and so on so at that point I felt here more than me thinking about myself these people are the ones who are calling me for the interview they are there for the sanctity of the process and in fact uh let's say you're not able to catch communication there's also internal communication between them if you're stuck in a particular round they will try to manage with the company so that you can get that interview done at some other point uh i mean be sympathetic with them uh try to operate as much as possible because they are there for you they are there to get you that dream internship of yours so i mean with respect to communication i don't think there's a gap that they keep in fact from the student perspective i think it becomes tough for the student to keep up with that they always i think over perform in that particular sense in keeping you up with your interviews and i think manas would also be able to agree or disagree with that? I mean, I will definitely agree with that because obviously these people, you have to understand that Placecomms are actually swamped with work. There are too many things to do at the same point of time. And parallelly, go ahead and give interviews, also plan for their, you know, work on their aspirations as well, right? Because apart from handling other people's interviews, apart from talking to these people who have come here to take interviews, talking to these companies, and you know, navigating all the conversations and representing CDC itself, right? So it's a very hectic job. So at some point in time, you might not hear from a place com after texting like you know multiple times but you just have to hang on there because I'm pretty sure if it's required they'll show up and most of the times they'll help you with whatever you need you just have to give them a little bit of like space because there might be a like a problem that they are like solving for the institute so i mean just hang in there ask for help seek for help again and again and they'll communicate to you whatever you need i was like helped whenever it was needed and most of my friends everyone that i know was like given support whenever they needed even in the placements this semester as well like last semester as well so I mean just be empathetic. So another question that we have in the chat box is that what would be ideal roadmap for a second year to prepare a strong CE? for a second year to prepare a strong CE? Like the different courses, internships, or could you like to take this one? Yeah, could you just repeat the question once again? So the question is, what would be a good roadmap for a second year trying to get into CV, trying to get into consulting? Can you please briefly discuss the courses, internships and different domains? Right. So, as I was saying, there's no particular roadmap. You do this, you do that and you get a consulting intern. Again, the very important part is doing what you like and really excelling in it. I mean, the end goal is to deliver impact and that will never be the case when you do something just for the sake of doing it uh if you like to uh do specific things for the uh student community get on those roles if you let's say love a particular type of work look for internships in that particular domain if you are really uh enthusiastic about what you study give your all in it right so the end goal is uh to maintain an overall profile but there are certain things to look at and try to excel in as many of them as you can uh i think there's also a question of additionally, could product management serve as a good backup option? Definitely it can. Again, as I was saying, the specifics of consult is really, really flexible. As an EQ, let's say, excelled in a product field or a finance field, you will get a short list. You can have a culmination of all of that and still have a really well-rounded CV for consult. Because recruiters in consult do not look for a specific work it's they look for how will you deliver if you are delivering well in product of course you can have that as a backup option for yourself if you want to understood thank you so now we'll be ending the Q&A session. Thank you, panelists. It was a really insightful and informative event. Before we wrap up, is there any last minute advice that we might have missed, so you might want to add on. Manas? I mean, I would just, so it's easier said than done. I would just ask people to not stress much about it because when I was preparing for CDC last year I used to stress too much about the process I used to stress too much about the results and like even like our deep knows this uh and you know so the point is even if you stress about the outcome it's not going to change right you are if you are like wondering whether I whether I would get a shortlist or not and if you're just wondering about it, stressing about it on a daily basis, that won't get you a shortlist, right? So you just have to keep calm. You just have to keep prepping. Use this as an opportunity to just learn a lot of things in a three-month duration. Because, I mean, obviously people try to give almost all the time that they have in the summers to prep for CDC and all. So just try to give most almost all the time that they have in this summer is to prep for like CDC and all so just try to give you know most of your time to learn new skills uh talk to a lot of people ask for guidance and seek advice and just like chill stay calm and don't be stressed this is just a platform to explore this is just an opportunity add an opportunity this doesn't reflect anything else. That's it. Right. And even I feel that it is very, very important to have a very strong support system. Don't get very, very emotionally attached to the process. You might have days of ups. You might have days of downs. process you might have days of ups you might have days of downs but if you're letting your days of downs or even the days of ups impact you to an extent that you cannot maximize on what you were supposed to do on that particular day then i think that is the battle lost right the final output as manas said is not something that's in your hand i mean you are there to represent yourself you are there to do the case you are there to do the best for yourself but i mean you may get the result you may not get the result just by stressing on that you cannot change the outcome again uh there is no certainty that you will get what you want and again in that particular sense uh it is not the end of the world right you can again give it a try in the next attempt right you can try for something else so it is not the end of the world right you can again give it a try in the next attempt right you can try for something else so it is not the end of the world and at the same time it is advisable i have some emotion but let me be very strong very strong if you want to vent out you can have a strong support system that will always pick you up from there on have a really good set of friends who would always be there for you no matter what. I mean, I think, Manas, I can agree on this. We took people to Subway by the end of day one because not everyone gets the result they want. You might get what you wanted, you may not get what you want. But that is again not the end of the world, right? Thank you, that was not to gain from those tips. So once again, I would like to extend my congratulations to the both of you for securing such impressive internships. Thank you for your valuable time and for sharing your impactful insights despite your busy schedule. Your experiences and guidance will be undoubtedly incredibly beneficial to all of us. I would also like to thank our audience for participating and making this event interesting and attractive. You guys look great this evening. Before we end, there's an important announcement. We will have a panel discussion on core profiles on the 7th of June. We'll be looking forward to for all of you to tune in. Thank you everyone. And thanks again panelists. All the best for your future endeavors. Bye.