I would like to ask my panelists what their inspiration was behind pursuing MBA. Divya, would you like to go first? Yeah, sure guys. So for me, I started CAD pretty late, but largely most of my inspiration around it was that while I was having a job offer in the strategy management consulting sort of role, I had no formal education to back it up. Also inside the industry, more often than not, if you want smooth progress inside a role like, let's say consulting or most of the other non-con roles, for a faster and smoother progress, usually an MBA is a requirement. So I thought, why not, you know, give my, give a try at CAT and see how it goes. So yeah, pleasure. Thank you, Divyam. Aniket, would you like to go next? Yeah, so as I mentioned, my M.Tech specialization was in financial engineering, so I was interested in finance right from the beginning of my journey in KGP. But the kind of roles that come in finance at campus are not, I would say, good enough. So for that you need a formal education in finance, business, strategy, operations, those sort of things. And these are the kind of things which I liked in my KGP days. So this is exactly what is taught in an MBA. So it was a very direct choice for me to go for an MBA. So I started CAD prep and then what happened. Thank you Aniket. Ratul, please share your insights with us. So basically after my first year, I actually explored a lot of aspects, basically a lot of subjects in KGP like SG, ML, finance. I took a bit of courses in finance also. And after that, I think that finance and strategy roles actually would suffice me. So basically, during my internship rounds, I couldn't get shortlisted for most of the companies, for most of the business analysts or the finance roles. But finally I did my intern at LTI as a business analyst. And that basically provoked me to give CAT. And then I gave CAT and that is my basically inspiration for doing an MBA. Thank you, Ratul. Now moving on. So knowing the structure of the exam is one of the primary key to ASD Coveted CAT examination. I would kindly request the panelists to throw some light on this topic. Aniket, would you like to begin? Well, let Ratul answer this. Aniket, would you like to begin? No, let Ratul answer this. Okay. So basically this year the structure was of 66 questions with most probably 24 in VRC, 20 in DILR and 22 in Quant. And in the previous year, it was actually of 76 questions. So basically, and prior to that year, it was 100 questions in three hours. So basically, the structure of the exam is actually changing, but I think that for the next year, it will be around 66 questions or like that in two hours time only. Because in most of the cases, Ahmedabad has actually set the structure. Since this year, Ahmedabad conducted the examination, so I think the structure will be similar to that only with 24 in VRC, 20 around in DILR and 22 in point and basically for each section it is not like our J mains or something like that where we can attempt any section at any point of time here 40 minutes are dedicated for each section and you have to score the required marks or the cutoff basically you have to clear the cutoff within the 40 minutes only. So, I would tell Divyam or Aniket to elaborate more if they want to. No, that's it. The key difference this year was that last year many people complained that there was not enough time to solve all the questions. So, they reduced the questions by 10. But then it also creates a problem that you don't get enough questions to choose from you don't have to solve everything first of all it's not je it's very different from that so you have to be very strategic about which questions you are going to solve if you are getting less questions to choose from you are getting less choices so that creates some problems that's the only difference from previous year other than that the structure will not be same next year the time period may vary it goes from two two hours to three hours three hours to two hours so never focus during your prep never focus on the pattern of the exam just like jl advanced it is exactly like that only yeah so that's right. So last couple of years, this has been like two hours. Prior to that, they always had a three hour, 100 question sort of setup. So that's one heads up that we would like to give you. Other than that, just a little more detail on what the sections entail. So VARC stands for verbal ability and reading comprehension. So there you have reading comprehension based questions and also like paragraph jumbles and pick the odd one out or things like that next dill is data interpretation and logical reasoning so in data interpretation you may be given data in the form of tables graphs and you have to solve you know sets based on those questions sets of four to six questions and logical reasoning also there are sets but it's sort of logically connected statements given to you and you have to make deductions and solve the questions and the last section is quantitative ability which is by and large class 9th 10th level mathematics yeah so thank you for the insights so moving on i would like to ask my panelists, what is the right time to start the preparation? Could you please share your experiences? Divyam? So I'm the worst person to answer this question because I started my prep after Diwali, which is October and like you still manage it. So in the worst case, one, one and a half month also works out but in my opinion probably if you are like very very serious about cat and you're 100 sure then i think ideally the best thing would be if you are in your pre-final year give cat once in your pre-final year just because they don't ask you for a proof of education or things like that so you can just try up here or whatever prep you can do in a limited amount of time, you can do that and up here once and in your final year you can usually start along the timeline of most coaching institutes. They start the test series in April, May so you can start with that and give your actual final attempt in your final year during the October. Thank you, Divyam. Aniket, we would love to hear from you. Yeah, so I usually tell people that six months are needed. I took six months to prepare. So three months, I took the initial three months from, I would say when the internship starts around April, May to when the internship ends around April May to when the internship ends July or August or something till then you can solve Arun Sharma books or any other books you prefer to cover whatever theory you think you might miss because when you're solving some questions then you think that I don't know so you you should not be thinking that when you are solving the test series. Most of the test series and courses start in August of all the issues. So you should finish all the books by July. Then start with the test series in August. Take at least two out of the three big issues. Time, career launcher and IMS. At least two out of these three. All three you can't manage because the slots will clash only one will be will not be enough because you need to give at least 30 to 40 marks and then you keep solving questions increase the frequency of marks till in November you're solving one mark every other day and this is like comprehensive is say other you can't do anything you can't start two years earlier and then think it will help. You will forget everything. This is the maximum amount of effective prep you can do for CAT. So, yeah, of course, lesser months also works depending on your capability. But this is the ideal one. Thank you, Aniket. Ratul, please share your experience with us. Okay, so I took the decision of giving the cat right in December 2020. So basically I took coaching from time actually and but that time you actually know that before like it was around 11 months before the actual exam. So I didn't do my preparations during that time. I only gave basically in the month of March or April they started the box. So time I only gave basically in the month of March or April they started the mocks. So basically I only gave the two or three mocks during that time and after my internship ended in July I started the full-fledged preparation. I even didn't sit for placements. So basically I did the preparation during all the August, September, October, November month. So I think four months is quite enough and I do suggest others to prepare in those four months only after one completes his or her internship and I think that is quite a lot of time to prepare for CAT only. Yeah, I would like to add one thing based on what Ratul mentioned. So he didn't even sit for placements i had a PPO and Divyam also had a placement offer pretty early in his semester right divyam so yeah so what i would say is that you need to decide whether you are giving cat very seriously if it's your final year do not think it's a very easy game or it will take very less time you might be very brilliant and you might do it in only one month but if you are an average student just like i was you will need to put in a lot of time and you will need to let go of a lot of many things i had a PPO i had nothing to do literally in my autumn semester so all i did was solve box that is not the case for 90% of the students those who are giving cat mostly are sitting for placements also and the cat happens to or three days before the day one so be very conscious of what you are choosing and if you are 100% sure if it is your pre-final year try to back as good as of internship as possible get a PPO that part is secured then you can go full 100 on the cat prep otherwise you you are in two minds and then it will hurt your personal i can guarantee you it will hurt your possible so please do not take the decision lightly if you are 100 committed like rat, then you can skip placements. Otherwise, I too had a PPO from LTI and that's why I focused. Yeah, yeah, again. Basically, you should have a backup. Because CAT is very unpredictable. You must have a backup. So you choose one set wrong in DILR and you don't even clear the cutoff. You choose one set right and you're sitting and giving a panel discussion on CAT. So that's the difference between, that's what happens in CAT. Please do not take the issue very lightly. Thank you, Aniket and Ratul. Now we'll move on to the next question. Now, panelists, would you like to brief the audience on the preparation strategy and resources, whether it be online or offline and coaching institute requirement Ratul would you like to begin so as i have said that i have actually taken the time coaching so basically in my December only i took up the coaching and it was basically a online and offline mixed mode so if i prefer to go for offline classes as i was in my home only and the coaching Institute was like just 5 to 6 kilometers away from my home. So basically I did go to the coaching Institute on some days and for rest days I did the online thing. And for time I can say that basically the test series will start from March or April end and the frequency will be very low during the those time and by the end of maybe September the frequency will increase to once two weekly and I would say that if you are thinking of any other resources or coaching that you guys are thinking then IMS and career launcher are obviously there but I I think if someone is basically seeing this panel discussion as a working professional, then I think that iQuanta is something which is actually quite effective because its classes are planned for working professionals only and they basically start from after 8 PM or something. If you are a working professional, then I would suggest that you can choose iQuanta. Or else if you are just in your pre-final year or final year, then you can give, basically you can take any of the institutes, Time, Career Launcher or Amos. Thank you, Ratul. Divyam, would you go next? Yeah, sure. So you have asked us two questions here, preparation strategy and resources. So let me answer about resources first. So resources, I think, would be in two parts. One is your coaching institutes. The other is test series. So for coaching, I have already mentioned that I started pretty late, so I did not have a time for a full-throttle coaching. But I would highly, highly recommend a course called VARC 3000 this is launched by Mr. Jijo Srinivasan at Career launcher i at least improve five or six questions solely because of that course so that is one bit about the coaching i'm not very sure if you need coaching for the other parts or not depending on you can you know give some previous years mocks and if you really feel the need for a coaching then you can go for it and among the three big names about the test series i would recommend one ims and either one of cl or Career launcher or nine and that's because ims i felt was a notch above cat level CAT level. So you're never complacent about CAT that way. Because others, you know, sometimes if your mocks are a little bit easier, then you start feeling overconfident or complacent. But IMS was something that kept me grounded because I couldn't score very, very high there. Other than that, time or career launcher, equally difficult. You can pick one of them. About preparation strategy, for me I did all classes with the VRC 1000 and did everything that they asked me to do during that course for VRC. So preparation strategy subject wise would be for VRC I would suggest read Aon SS there's a this free website called Aon SS it will help you increase your reading speed, also comprehension. The complexity of sentences and words is similar to CAT level. So do that. Other than that, for DILR, I would say solve CAT level or higher than CAT level sets from anywhere. Could be Arun Sharma books, previous years, test series, anything like that. For quant, go through the syllabus once because there may be things you may might have studied during 9 10 10 tsc kbp by days uh you know things like linear races circular races there are some formulae that and allegations you can apply formulae and it makes your life easier um so do learn those formulae and if you're sitting in IIT i think if you are you know through with the syllabus once very quickly for quant, it should work for you. Other than that, take your mocks very, very seriously. So even though I had very less time, I was able to manage to give one mock every day. So I had 30-40 mocks. Analyze your mocks very well for the strategy bit. Analyze them very, very well. Every single question, if it comes to you again you should be able to solve it in like record amount of time or something every set in DLR you should be very very serious about it and most of these coaching institutes have a very advanced way of to help you analyze mocks where you can figure out what are your weak sections what are your strong sections so keep a you know space in your day where you practice your strong section so that it remains like strong chapters inside each section so that it remains strong but also uh parallelly keep working on your weaker sections and so basically do take that deep dive analysis by the coaching mocks very seriously thank you so much Divyam, Aniket please share your insight Thank you so much, Divyam. Aniket, please share your insight. Yeah, so I would say that first of all, before I start telling anything about my prep, you should take whatever any of us tells with a pinch of salt, because this is not an, this is not a knowledge-based exam. It's an aptitude exam. so the strategy will depend a lot on who you are what you have done till now so i personally so first of all before you start the prep well in advance you should solve try solving some previous papers of cat and you can see in how much water you are so uh now going section wise uh i personally don't recommend joining any coaching. First of all because you won't have too much time to attend them diligently and second of all you don't need it. It is an overkill joining any institute full time for coaching. Again it will depend on person to person. For quant you can solve Arun Sharma books. You can consider it as quant bible. Read the theory part, solve the LOD1 questions. That's it. For DILR, try solving as many questions as possible. DILR is still a mystery to me. I don't know how I scored, how much I scored there. And finally for VRC, I am assuming all of the people who are listening in are engineers and from Kharagpur only. VRC is what will kill you. I can guarantee you VRC will kill you if you take it lightly. VRC kills all engineers. That is the only section that is used to segregate engineers among themselves. So you are at an inherent disadvantage against someone who has been reading books since they have been born i was one of such people so i did not need any extra prep in VARC (Verbal and Reading Comprehension) it was like second nature to me but i have seen people struggling they don't even they are not even able to see the whole paper by the time i am able to complete the paper complete the VARC section so read as much as you can from as early as possible if you are a second year or a third year listening to this start reading one two three hours a day English any kind of English is fine books movies novels whatever buy a Kindle, start downloading books, keep reading anything, anything is fine. But start reading English. And in the end, if you think you are not still good enough by August of the cat year, then BRC 1000 is a very, very good course. I highly recommend it. As Divyam said, take that course, it will increase your marks by anything. So take that course in the end. If you think you're good enough, you don, take that course, it will increase your marks by anything. So, take that course in the end. If you think you are good enough, you don't need that course because then it will just be repetitive. They will be explaining what grammar is when you already have read thousands of books. So, it's not needed then. Otherwise, yeah, that's it for BRC. Please take extra care on BRC. It will kill you, guarantee. Thank you, Aniket. It was pretty insightful. So, moving on. We already had a manual discussion on this in the discussion before, but I would still like my panelists to shed some light on this question. How did the placements, preparations go along with the placements? How hard was it to juggle between the two simultaneously? Dipen, would you like to go first? Yeah, so as all three of us said, we sort of had a PPO and I did sit for some off-campus interviews, but they also were wrapped up by like September. So for us, it was a very different experience, but I can tell you some experience of friends who did sit in placements. So ideally, if you're taking cat very seriously then it might be very difficult for you to like prepare for a lot of profiles during placements especially profiles which require a lot of hard knowledge like say sd or you know finance type profiles or even if you are i would recommend that if you are giving cat don't go for more than two profiles it's going to be extremely NP hard to manage placements along with CAT. Ideally take profiles where your preparation for CAT and preparation for the profile somewhat have some degree of correlation between them. So profiles like you know consulting where you do have a like quant based testing in a few of the companies and profiles like business analyst or you can pick maybe one hard profile like finance because again it does enjoy some correlation with your CAT exam but profiles like machine learning or finance or software might be too hard if you pick more than one of them. So one profile where hard knowledge is required, but preferably one among analytics or finance and not SD because SD is more of a full-time, you have to devote towards it. And one profile you can pick from among consulting or business analyst and slightly lighter profiles which have some correlation with CAD. Then also, I mean, sitting for placements, you might have to compromise a little bit on your CAT score, but really depends on person to person. Some people struggled a lot and ended up not getting a very good percentile, but some people took it really smooth and they did AS placements and CAT together. So, sort of depends on you and how seriously you take your marks. Thank you, Divyam. Ratul, we would love to hear from you. That was pretty much, I think. So, basically, as I have decided earlier only that I will be giving the CAT in 2021. So, basically, I tried quite hard to get the PPO and basically I secured it at the end and basically I didn't have to think with the placements. Thank you, Ratul. Aniket, would you like to add something? No, nothing. Okay. Now moving on to the next question. So proceeding with our discussion, panelists, would you like to tell the CAD aspirants present here about how to attempt the exam strategically? Would any of you like to begin you can go ahead okay yeah yeah any case you go ahead and you do the best for it okay so strategy wise um as i told earlier you don't have to solve all the questions. Please don't try to solve all the questions. The negative is one third, so it pays very heavily on your marks. During marks also, you should analyze very heavily that how much negative you are getting and try to minimize it as much as possible. you are getting and try to minimize it as much as possible an ideal number of questions all would be like I will tell you a rough number we are see solve all of them target all I mean it's just like passage there will be a passage you will have to read and take one option it doesn't take time doesn't take any knowledge doesn't take any hard or easy set you have to solve all the questions in quant you can out of 22 i think i solved 16 or 17 of them and got almost all of them right so it's not about solving all the questions it's about getting them right and uh you can try a series wise approach that go through the questions first solve as much as you can then come back again something like that you'll have you'll have more than enough time to develop these strategies during the mocks take the mocks as if they are the actual cat exam and try to polish your strategy by the time you are sitting for cat uh and DILR (Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning) it's all about set selection they will in our, there were four sets. Three were pretty much easily solvable. I was in slot three. One set was like, if you touch that set, if you go into that set, your CAT exam is over. That's it. Pack your bags and go home. You need to learn how to identify those kind of cancer sets. I call it a cancer set. Your exam will be over if you touch that set i know people who were scoring consistently much above me in the mocks they touched that set thinking that sub to attack curling a said b and they bombed the exam they got 99.9 something percentile in both VARC and quant and they up DILR didn't even call you didn't even get a call from any IR on the other hand there was me i knew all i had to do was clear the cutoff of dlr percentile i knew that so i was i was defensive i was like and in that way i did not touch that set, solved the other three ones and my best percentile is in DLR only. So yeah, be careful of set selection in DLR. Please finish that in your mocks. Thank you Aniket. Would any of the other two panelists like to add something to what Aniket said? Yeah, so before I talk about strategy, I would say use your mocks very wisely to prepare your own strategy because it has to be custom made. So try different strategies during mocks, see what works, see what does not. I think that would be best for you. But what my experience was that for VA RC, like have a hunch between VA and RC and what is your like stronger area of what you can. So ideally I would also say that similar to NK, try to target like 25 or 26 out of 26 questions in VRC and have a hunch between VA and RC and whatever you can solve faster with higher accuracy. For most people that is RC, but like you may be very good with English. So VA also might just be the thing for you. So ideally if you have that in you you know you have read a lot of books and you're very good in english then i think go for vm because here you can solve very very large number of questions very quickly but again accuracy is a issue for most people in vr for rcs pick your RC (Reading comprehension) is very uh so analyze your mocks and understand so rcs may also come from different domains, right? Literature, history, science. So and you might have comfort with some of them. You might not have comfort with some of them. So understand your area of comfort. Target those RCs first. You may be comfortable with certain length of words, certain type of questions. So when you're giving the paper, skim through the RC very quickly. Look at the question and the options and whichever question has very straight forward type, whichever RC has straight forward type questions, very factual which you can pick from the RC and answer, try to prioritize solving those RCs first and have a round approach, 1 round, 2 round, 3 round and ideally 2 to 3 rounds should be it. For DILI, for me, that is the like the make or break section for me because I was reasonably okay in DRC, quant was good. But DILR against set selection is the most important thing. Even someone was consistently topped in mocks if they pick up the wrong set, just like Aniket said, it's over, cat is over for them. So again, understand your area of strength in DLR again DLR also has chapters like games and tournaments or quant based reasoning or pipe connection questions and things like that so intuitively you may be strong in one or two of them and it doesn't mean that you start picking that set itself so a combination of the length of the set how many constraints are there and which chapter it comes from, based on these three formulate like a strategy on which set to pick first. And again about the target strategy, try to solve around 75% of the set whatever the length of the paper is. If you are very strong in DLR, then only then you can target all the sets and doing all the questions. For point again round approach worked best for me so I would skim through the paper once whichever question I find like like VRC questions or very easy questions I would solve them immediately and whichever questions I thought I can solve but it will take more than 45 seconds or one minute I used to mark for review and whichever questions I was not sure if I'll be able to solve or not I just left them so in my second round I would solve all the mark for review questions and then I would do a third round for the questions I had not marked earlier to see what you know if I'm able to solve any of them or not but usually like solving the whole paper at once did not work out really important. Yeah, thank you, Divyam. Ratul, would you like to add something? Okay, so I will consider myself as an engineer who is basically weak in the VARC section. So unlike Aniket, I don't basically read books that much. So for me, the VARC section was mostly dependent on the RCs because that is actually because by giving if you are giving 30 to 40 mock test, then you basically get a hang of the exam and hang of the options like how basically the author or basically the question paper setter is actually trying to like, what is basically they are trying to test. trying to like what is basically they are trying to test so I basically got that intuitive nature and so basically I gave my exam and it was basically a lucky set in the slot three most of the sets were basically from science fiction and so basically like to read them and I actually scored a pretty good enough number in VRC so basically for VRC my strategy was that I should target all the questions, basically 24 out of 24 questions. Basically, I have tried this strategy in several mocks. Like I have seen how much is my accuracy to how much is the attempt questions and I found that whenever I have attempted the whole paper, then only I have secured the most number of marks. So basically I went on with that strategy only. For DILR as everyone have said that basically it is a test of selection whichever set you are selecting if you are able to solve everything out of that basically you have to solve only two sets out of the four so basically if you can solve any two of those any two sets out of the four then you can easily clear the cutoff and actually get above 95% to 98% time, basically. I could solve one full set, and in the second set, I actually fumbled. Though I think I didn't pick that set which Aniket was mentioning in slot three. I think he was mentioning about the javelin throw set. Basically, I didn't pick up that set. But it took actually quite a lot of time in solving my second set also. And I could solve only 50% out of that. So basically, if you are selecting the set and then able to do all the things of that set, then it's okay. And if not, then it's basically a setback in the exam and you won't even actually cut off qualify the cutoff clear the cutoff for quant in slot three i think it was a bit difficult than the other two slots so basically i also did a whole round approach so basically i went through the question paper once and then I started from the questions which I think that it can be solved by me, but it will take some time. So I solved those questions and that's all I think. Basically the strategy, the strategy basically depends on how you are. Basically it is like custom made for everyone according to the mocks. So if you give 30 to 40 mocks, then you basically come up with a strategy which will be beneficial for you. One thing I would like to say that for me, as I am basically a bit weak in VRC. So I took a two minutes break before starting the DILR section, and any of you can do that thing. I know two minutes is a lot of time in a test of 40 minutes but you can take that time to again strategize well so that you can actually clear the DILR section also uh one last thing i would like to add about the quant section uh so all the questions are like uh three men did it in five hours how much time will five will take so we are all engineers right we have solved these questions earlier so don't take it on your ego ki line se karenge sab karege 40 minute me nahi hoga bahut buri halat ho jayegi so please drop that ego from your mind as soon as possible right in the second or third marks you will score very bad i scored like 60 70 percent in my first or second marks so i knew so I'm telling you in advance don't take it on your ego it's all about strategy and focus on the strategy thank you panelists now moving on we also received some questions through our registration form, so we'll take those frequently asked questions. Many aspirants must often find themselves asking, why should one pursue an MBA? So panelists, would any of you like to take up this question? any of you like to take up this question? I think this is very similar to the first question, the motivation behind MBA. So like, so why should one pursue, if you want to list on all the questions, then going by first principles for let's see what MBA offers you so MBA can offer you a placement in a non-tech profile. So one reason would be that most of the profiles here in ktp are tech profiles you want to get placed in a non-tech profile so that's one reason the second reason could be for if anyone is working then the reason could be that they want to break from job or they don't find their progression to be as fast as they would like it so then they are going for an MBA and I don't know the third reason could be that there is you know some aspects of campus life that you have not touched upon and you have the liberty or the money and the time to do an MBA and you want to touch upon get those skills from you know simply the aspect of living in hostels and having a campus life that's a very first world type of reason, but might be a reason for someone. So ideally, yeah, those are the reasons too. Thank you, Divyam. Could any of the other two panelists like to add something? Oh, it is basically discussed earlier, so it's fine for me. OK, thank you. Now moving on. There are many criteria apart from the CAT percentile to get into IIMs and top B schools. Is there any weightage for prior work experience? Would any of the panelists like to take up this question? Yeah, there's a lot of weightage on past work experience. But you have to think of it as a trade-off. Right now you are in college, you are studying, taking out two-three hours of time from your daily schedule will not be very tough. Rather it will be very easy. it will be very easy I found it very easy I didn't have anything to do but when you are on a job you will be working from 9 to 6 7 8 o'clock and then you will be dead tired you won't be able to do anything so it's a trade-off there are some points for work X but that those points can be nullified using better cat percentile and it varies from b school to b school so like for example it's very tough for a fresher to crack i am bangalore they absolutely hate pressures but on the other hand it's easier to get into IIM Ahmedabad and IIM Calcutta and there's also a mixture of 10th score and your undergrad marks also. So the only thing about Work Experience is that there is a trade-off. Other than that, other things you can't change. So try to get as much percentile. If you are getting 100 percentile in CAT and you are getting an average interview also, you will get into all IELTS. So you should be targeting 100 percentile. 9 people got 100 percentile this year and anyone who is getting more than 99.7 or 99.8 percentile could have been that 100 percentile. So you should be targeting the 100 percentile score and every other factor will be nullified by that. Thank you Aniket. Would any of the other two panelists like to add something? I'm sorry? No, he covered. Thank you. Now moving on to the next question. Next, does having a degree in MBA help an individual in his or her startup? Any of the panelists would like to answer this question? Yeah, so right now we have not pursued an MBA. So take this with a grain of salt. But I think there are two aspects of doing a startup. One is the fundraising and the other is running your day to day P&L in the startup. So for fundraising, pedigree somewhat helps in an Indian setup. So if you have like a ISB, IM or some good B-School on your CV, then people who fund your startups could be investors, are more likely to trust you more. So that's some sort of help. i think an MBA degree provides you a formal knowledge experience of various you know facets of running a startup like operations or strategy or finance and marketing and sales so which you might not have had earlier so if you feel under confident that you are not good with one or more of these skills and you have the liberty of time and money on your hands then yes having an MBA with to varying extents for different people will help you with your startup and something thank you Divyam would any of the other two panelists like to add something basically i would just say that this is not mandatory, but if you have it on your site, then it's a good thing. Thank you. Now, moving on. So this question I'm sure many of the CAT aspirants would like an answer to. How can one improve his or her English to get a good cat score so i would like uh Ratul to go first please well i would say that luck worked for me but basically you should give mocks like i have said that i have given around 30 to 40 mocks so basically if you get a hang of the RCs and how the question paper basically sets the question and how they want to get you in the trap of the wrong options, then that is also one of the ways. And other than that, you should read the editorial parts of the newspapers or some books or essays like that. Thank you, Ratul. Aniket, please share your experience with us. Unlike the other two sections, English, you can't do anything if the time has gone. Like if you're giving CAT this year, then all you can do is read essays and take BRC 1000 course, that's it. If there is still time left, I would suggest even if you're not giving CAT, then you should subscribe to some newsletters read newspapers keep reading books i mean there is so much knowledge in books when people don't even read books so if you are regularly reading books VRC section will be a cakewalk you will complete this section in 20-25 minutes and then you will be sitting watching other people's face example and that will give you so much confidence then you will select the right set I am telling you in DLR also. So read as much as you can and VRC will create the difference please do not take it lightly. I am repeating it for the 10th time now at least. Thank you Aniket. Divyam please share your experience. Yeah, my answer is also similar. If you are in second or third year, read as many books as possible. And if you are in your final year, just take ARC 1000 and pay to board. If anybody wants, I can share a list of the newsletters I used to read and I'm still reading. You need to take out one, one and a half hours and at the beginning of your day, read at least 10, 15 newsletters I used to read and I am still reading. You need to take out one, one and a half hours and at the beginning of your day read at least 10-15 newsletters. You will literally know anything that is happening in the world and it will help with your English and it will help you make, be a better engineer I would say. There is so much to know and people don't know shit. So you should read a lot. There is so much to know and people don't know shit. So you should read a lot. Thank you, Aniket and Divyam. We would love to have that list. Now we move to the next part of this discussion. Now we are opening the chat box. Audience, please feel free to post your unresolved query in the chat box. We'll take up your questions from there. So, we have our first question. How much weightage does 10, 10, 12 marks have? Would any of the panelists like to answer this up? So it's different for different IEMs. Like a bare minimum of combined 10th and 12th would be I think 15 to 20% for your interview call. And for your final selection, bare minimum I think would be anywhere between five and ten percent um for on the maximum side uh like i am indoor i think has close to 40 45 percent for 10th and 12th combined for interview call and in your final selection also i think 15 to 20 percent on a maximum side so it's different for different big schools yeah so thank you for that. You can go ahead with a few more questions. So for normalization also, I think it depends on. Yeah, so for normalization also depends on I am to I. Some IMs have a very like standard way ki 80-90% ke upar hai to itte marks, iske upar hai to itne marks. Some people have it normalized. So I think IIM Bangalore has a normalization criteria added to it. IIM Ahmedabad I think does not. So it depends on IM to IM. Yeah, thank you so much. I have added the list in the chat box. Thank you Aniket. So audience you can put your doubts and queries in the chat box. We will wait for the couple of minutes. Basically another thing that I would like to share is that if you are confident with your marks and all that if you have scored pretty much well in your marks and in the main exam if you are thinking that maybe i am not able to solve all these quant questions while i was able to solve these quant questions in my marks so basically don't get uh like terrified or anything and just do how much you can because if you are think if you have actually done pretty well with your preparation and if you are struggling with your quants or any other section, VARC or DILR in the exam hall, then just think that maybe other candidates who are actually appearing for the test are also basically are also struggling with those things. And since there is a normalization thing which is applicable in CAT in the slots, so basically don't worry with like if your set is tough or if your Quant is tough like if you haven't scored well enough in your quant then after normalization, it will be quite okay Basically if one of the sets the quant is hard and the VRC is easy while on the other set the VRC is hard and Quant is easy then it will get normalized up to like how much the candidates have scored and that kind of thing so basically don't get terrified and anything like that sort and just give your exam smoothly yeah one more thing that was not covered till yet till now so IIM Ahmedabad has a deferred admission policy you can defer your admission after securing a seat for one year or two years so any of you who thinks that they don't want to again study for two more years just after your engineering then then you can try for that i started my prep keeping that in mind only and i have actually applied for the deferral also I'll get the confirmation till May end. But if you think that you can convert IIM Ahmedabad and you don't want to study, then keep that goalpost in mind and get that 100% score. That is also a good goalpost to keep. Thank you Aniket and Ratul for sharing your insights. And we'll take up this one last question from the audience. And the question is, is there a weightage or importance for PORs that we have done in college? Any of the panelists would like to take up this question? So there is no formal or direct weightage in like most preschools I know of. I think if, I don't know if you would be interested, but there is a college called SPJN, which is some, one of the good colleges, which do give a profile-based call so there you have to submit your CV and might have a direct weightage there but as far as IIMs are concerned I think most of the IIMs in some way or the other once you get the interview call up till that point they definitely do not have a weightage but after getting the call they ask you to fill out a form in some way or direct or indirect ways they will ask you to fill up about your viewers for most of the colleges and during the interview it might come up so you might score points there and you know it's really a black box how they give interview scores so they might as well look at your form along with your interview and then give you your scores so like in nutshell there is no direct weightage but there is some there you can say that there is some you know really small indirect weightage on the strategy bit there's just one more thing i wanted to add before we drop off is about giving the mocks so cat exams happens in two or three slots and they are you know they are very fixed about their timings you can look up the timings on the internet so when you're giving the mocks try to you know keep yourself active or you know try to give your mocks in so coaching institutes will give you a free window of like two or three days to give the mocks but do give the mocks during the specific timings of when the slots are arranged for the carrot exams and make your mind prepared for all the three you know slots so for me i was luckily not in slot one but the morning times usually did not work out for me when i started my preparation so whenever i gave my walk in that 8 to 10 slot i did not score well especially in dlr because you have to be very very active to sort DLR so from the very get-go when you start preparing make sure that you know early morning slot, afternoon slot, evening slot all three you are comfortable. Also yeah one last thing as Divyam mentioned so when I used to when I when I was preparing I used to think what will what will it matter if i am less active at the exam window i mean something like that anything and everything we have said if you take any of it lightly you will again be sitting for cat the next year i am telling you all these things make a difference you need to be at your absolute peak best during the CAT exam. If not sleeping during a two hour window when you know your slot is 4 to 6 pm, if that helps you should not slack off on that. Please do not take it lightly. Everything will affect your percentile. That's the difference between a 99.5 and a 99.9 and a call from all three im abc and a call from nowhere so please keep that in mind do not take it so when i was in campus i like the word was that for IITians and engineers cat is a very very easy exam and you can sell and give it and everyone makes it and things like that but during my short phase of preparation i realized that people from our own campus you would see them at 100 percentile you would also see them at like 97 98 you know very similar people so cat is really not easy and you know even if someone calls a 99.6 percentile a good percentile, you might still not get any of the IIM ABC calls at 99.6. So might be, you know, for someone or a lot of people, 99.2, 3, 4, 5, 6 might be easy percentiles to get in some way. But like the real target percentile, as Aniket said, should be very close to 100. That's when, you know, you can be a slightly relaxed that you know there's an uh there is a lot of uncertainty associated with your writing tests and interviews and things at 100 percentile is only when you can like slightly be reasonably confident that you'll at least make it to one of my ABCs so CAT is tough it is very tough you have to work hard might not be as you know taxing as JEE but it is still you have to put in a lot lot and lot of effort to make sure that you are around that 100 yeah just to give a ballpark idea uh anything below 99 i think uh IIM Calcutta lowest call this year was 99.68 and six seven something and i'm talking from the point of view of a general engineering male there are points for everything once you start picking up these things uh for a general engineering mail anything below ninety nine point six eight you won't get an IM ABC call from ninety nine point six eight to I think ninety nine point nine five is the gray area if they are feeling well they will give you a call if they are not feeling and they will randomly not give you a call and you won't be able to do anything only above 99.95 you know that you will 100% convert it unless you form the interview really bad after 99.95 you need to give them a reason to reject you below that you will need to give them 100 reasons to select you so keep that in mind cat percentile makes all the difference. Thank you so much for sharing your answers with us. Thank you for the meaningful and enlightening discussion. Panelists, is there some final advice you would like to give to the CAT aspirants present here? Ratal, would you like to start? So basically, if you are going to say about the preparation time, so basically now everyone is doing their internships or their projects under professors or under their own departments or from some other departments. So after that, if you are actually thinking of giving the CAT wholeheartedly, then you should start your prep just after completing your internships or projects, whatever you are going on. And you should actually focus on giving marks. If you are able to give 50 to 60 marks, then it's very good. So the more number of marks you give, the more your confidence will build up. And if you are thinking that, no, I will just give 10-12 marks and then go to the exam and ace the exam then it won't be that much easy for someone like maybe someone extraordinary can go with only 10-12 marks so that's the thing but other than that I would recommend that anything between 30-40 or 40-50 marks is well enough for someone for any aspirant and uh like if you are not able to score well in cat like if that's a possibility then there are exams like other exams also like that which is also a well-known exam like i would say that cat and that are only the two exams which basically you need to ace it and other than that i won't recommend giving other exams don't give other exams not recommend please do not give any other exams yeah so that is the thing like and for that also if you are only securing a place in XLRI Jamshedpur then only it's basically a match with all the top six IIMs or else i won't say that you should go with you should repeat it in the next year. That's the thing from my side. Yeah, one last thing I would say is there is no more advice to offer. You can always reach out to any of us after the session. We'll be happy to help you out. Please do not start sending us questions and telling us all that's not our job. We'll give you one or two line answers and then we won't respond after that so please don't do that other than that best of luck to everyone who is appearing for cat this year i want at least 500 percent ls from KGP so you that's the goal post you need to target and uh yeah best of luck to everyone yep same My final advice would be that don't believe rumors. CAT is a difficult exam even for IITians and 90 KGPians. So work hard for it. I think you're smart enough to make best use of whatever advice you've given so far and whatever advice you can get personally later on. So yeah, all the best and see you at IIM sometime. Thank you so much, panelists. So coming to the conclusion of the seminar. Coming to the conclusion of the seminar, first, we would like to thank the panelists, Divyam, Aniket, and Ratul for giving us your precious time and sharing your valuable insights with us. We would also like to thank the audience for being so pleasant and active during the seminar. That's all from our side. I hope the seminar was good and insightful for each and every one of you. Thank you and have a pleasant evening. you