With CDC internships coming up, this session will help us to get clarity on preparation strategies, profile roadmaps, and much more. We would be having a live Q&A session towards the end of the discussion. In case you have any queries, kindly note them down and we will address them in the Q&A session. So do stay till the end to get all your queries resolved. I would now like to introduce everyone to today's panelists. First, we have Ms. Devaki Nandana Vardhineedhi from BCG. She is also ex-Vice President, Technology Students, Gymkhana, IIT, Kharagpur. Devaki, would you like to introduce yourself? Yeah, thank you, Karsh, for passing it to me. So for everyone, like I think most of the people attending are going to be the first second third years with whom like I rarely had interaction on campus so talking about myself so I'm Devaki Nandana a recent graduate year like that has been a recent change in my introduction or else it used to be a finally a undergraduate from the department of geology and geophysics enrolled in its integrated MSc course of applied geology but now yeah I'm a recent graduate and I also had a minor in economics and a micro specialization in entrepreneurship and innovation and I had been the vice president of technology students in Kana for the academic session 2021 and 2022 also I'm really happy to be part of this workshop today because I had been in your shoes R Rashid, because like I think in my second year when I was a secretary at Communicate today, it feels really good to be on the other side of the table. So I'm really looking forward for a great interaction with everyone. Yeah. Thank you, Devaki. We are excited to have you on board. Our next panelist is Mr. Soumyajit Chakraborty, currently in TSMC, which stands for Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited. Swamiji, please introduce yourself. Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Utkarsh and Rashi for having me here. So as Utkarsh introduced, so I'm also a recent graduate okay i was there in the mathematics and computing okay and i was there in Rajendra Prasad RP hall we are really exciting to be here okay we also got all the Fundae of CD placement and internship from our seniors okay from these seminars only. And now, yeah, I'm here to give you all those information. Yeah. Thank you, Soumyajit. I welcome you to this panel discussion. Our third panelist, Mr. Ashish Gokankar has got some urgent work due to which we could not make it to the panel discussion. Heartiest congratulations to all our panelists on their remarkable achievements. We are eager to learn from your experiences. Let's dive into the panel discussion. So let's start today's session by enlightening our audience about the various job profiles on which students should focus their preparation before the internships, ways to choose the right profile and the various job profiles on which students should focus their preparation before the internships, ways to choose the right profile and the classification of profiles into core and non-core. Devaki, would you like to give your insights into this? OK, so talking about various profiles which are broadly classified into core and non-core. So here I think that most of you would be knowing core is the department that you are part of. For the mechanical engineering students, it can be like mechanical engineering related jobs. And the core companies comes like Bajaj, Auto and all. For the aerospace engineering people, the companies like Airbus, for the chemical engineering people, companies like Reddy's, Laboratories, and they have Piramal and all where they work on job related to core chemical engineering or the subject that they have learned throughout the years at their department. So for the department, I was part of that is geology and geophysics the core departments included ONGC, Vedanta, Exxon Mobil and various other oil and gas companies that used to visit the campus placements and internship drive. Whereas opportunities in core are limited when compared to non-core because there are not so many companies in core department that you might be part of but you do have some companies that visit so that is like basic description about the core and coming to the non-core profiles which is like where you have, it's kind of 80-20 thing that happens where 80% of your opportunities hail from the non-core and 20% of your opportunities hail from core. This percentage may vary from department to department. Some departments like electrical engineering or EC, they do have more core opportunities. So yeah, non-core has these profiles which are finance consulting analytics and software which most of the people focus on since like we know this is the tech era where things are being built on ai with like ChatGPT, Google Bard and all being around most of the opportunities are in the field of software where you will be building tech things apart from the core software engineering you have the tech roles and the data and all so data machine like data science machine learning artificial intelligence deep learning neural networks and so like what I feel is everyone despite on whatever your interests are you should have that basic tech education like everyone should know python despite whatever your interests are everyone should know the basics of machine learning despite whatever your interests are because whatever your interest be it in finance be it in consult roles or be it in geology or anything you will apply all these basics at one point or the other since today's world is more focused around tech. Non-core do have a lot of opportunities where I think with the course of this panel discussion we will deep dive into each of these profiles where we can give deeper insights of each of these profiles. So I think that is the idea about core and non core. Thank you, they keep some easy would you like to go next? Yeah, sure. So the broad idea like they've already explained, I just like to add something. So how to choose in which profile you have to go right. So if you are, let's say in your first year or second year, okay, you have to go right so if you are let's say in your first year or second year okay you have still the time to explore all the things okay you can try out different profiles let's say you do one machine learning project and do some software development work okay do some mathematical thing to in the quant field okay or maybe some uh consultancy stuff some case study okay so you have the option to explore. Okay. So when you will go in third year, fourth year, so this option will not be with you because you already have done your two years or three years. So it's kind of your CV is already built, right? That option is there in your first and second year. Now there are some things like software, quant, and data analysis. Like these profiles are kind of interchangeable so if you are preparing for software so you can go in quant okay or data analytics that is not much of that thing but let's say if you are preparing your software you want to go to finance now that is difficult or in consultancy that is really difficult okay so these are the some things to keep in mind okay other than that a PM (Product Manager) role is also there okay uh so yeah so maybe you talk to your seniors that which row in which role you have to do what okay and you will find some matching with your inclination and all yeah that's it i think i just want to add a point here as Soumyajit rightly pointed the journey starts with selecting your profile and which is very crucial part of your entire journey and this is like toughest part as well many people find it difficult especially in the early years of KGP journey everyone will have that inclination for data science or people might have inclination for core and all. So as Soumyajit rightly said, first and second years are completely for exploration. At the end of first year, people suggest this Andrew NG course, which we sit and browse throughout the summers. I think 80% of us might have done that Andrew NG course. Like later, we all might have applied for projects under the professors of IIT Kharagpur that typical professors of computer science department or industrial department we all know the names as well now like they're applying for projects under them so this is all part of the exploration where people try their hands on with like machine learning data science and all at the same time like core is something that you'll gradually explore when you get into your department from your second year if you're getting interest in that or not so many people like they do have that very specific inclination towards their core right from the beginning. They do pursue these research internships who have this gradual plan of getting into either core companies or the research profiles or pursuing higher studies in future. I think that gives a fair idea on core and non-core. I think that gives a fair idea on core and non-core. Thank you, panelists. That will surely help our audience make informed decisions and explore through the varied amounts of profiles that they have in front of them. Now that we have come across different work profiles, I would like to ask the panelists about different ways and resources to apply for an internship uh Soumyajit uh would you like to go ahead okay uh so the ways of for apply to intensive right so first one is the on campus okay that is your CDC intensive okay and try hard for it because believe me on campus is on off campus are both different thing at least for SDE and quant those role because when you are in on campus the company is coming to you and to take you because the requirement is of the company but in off campus the requirement is of you company don't need you right now okay otherwise they would have a come for on campus so inside company also they prefer on campus first okay that is the thing so keep this in mind and try to get in on campus only okay now for the off-campus thing so LinkedIn is there but you know it's very difficult nowadays that you apply in a career page or in a LinkedIn job post and you get the uh result you get some interview call it's very difficult nowadays okay uh so company portals is there yeah alumni connection is there yeah this is uh the success rate is uh greater here so if you know some seniors of yours who are two three let's say at least two three years senior than you uh you can ask in their company to refer for some uh that thing uh intensive thing okay and uh believe me it is if in off campus now the connection is the main thing if you get the interview call then it is easier than on campus okay because in on campus you have that uh like very much competition with all those people but once you get let's say by a referral you get the interview call now it is easier than on campus but referral is the main thing okay yeah some platforms are there uh LinkedIn, Internshala okay some portals are there they also work sometime okay so i will tell you another hack here okay which may increase your rate of success that so if you let's say blindly apply in many companies okay it will not work like that because some company let's say they do not ever take from off campus that is their company policy now you are applying on those portals that will not help but you go to some seniors portal some LinkedIn profile and see that if that senior has done some off-campus internship or not okay and let's say in some company he did so that is the company who takes off-campus internship apply that company okay and talk to that senior also because once that senior is there doing internship in that company he actually knows that whom to mail okay if you mail the wrong person also you don't get the interview call but the main HR who is actually recreating that senior will know because after doing the intensive you know everything like at least about the team okay that is one thing otherwise sometimes what happens that let's say some company is there who is opening some new office in some town okay then they hire a lot of people at that time if you hit that particular HR at the right time you get the call okay another thing to notice that let's say when you get the news of your some friends that your friend is selected in some company okay that means that that company is hiring right now off campus so as soon as possible contact that HR that your friend connected and most probably you will also be selected in that case okay so recently actually uh some of my friends were selected in Nomura in berlin office so it was that they were opening a new office in berlin and like three four people are continuously selected okay after that they stop so these are like some hacks yeah like they work you can add something yeah i think uh Swamiji has told the most powerful hack for on-campus and off-campus both. As he rightly mentioned, give your best shot for the upcoming CDC internship drive, which is going to be the on-campus drive. Because the on-campus offers, as Swamiji told, the companies are coming to you as they have the requirement. As Soumyajit told, the companies are coming to you as they have the requirement and you do have more security as well, since it is through an official channel, which is Career Development Center at IIT Kharagpur. So you do have more security. You do have this fixed process where you just need to apply on a portal. You'll get a shortlist like then you may need to appear for a test and another shortlist and then a group discussion maybe and then another shortlist and then interview and another shortlist the process is kind of standard you do have this technical round group discussion and personal interview and HR rounds for some companies whereas off campus the process will vary from company to company like you need to go and apply on the company's portal for most of the firms like almost every company or startup do have this career section or join our team section on their website where do they do keep this open positions but i think across the years i rarely see internship positions on their portals like the MNCs like the big corporates do have internships on their portals but startups mostly have the full-time roles on their portals and the application process or whatever the process will completely vary from company to company how they are going to handle it off campus so you need to approach multiple POCs and then how they are going to schedule the rounds be it like technical rounds or then interview rounds or you rarely have group discussion rounds on campus off campus things so yeah now we'll have a clear division over here what to do if you are choosing a core profile what to do if you are choosing a non-core profile if you are choosing a core profile then you do have limited options through CDC like you do get limited companies through CDC give you the best shot so uh like make a good resume upload on the portal like uh whatever like you in CDC you need to make the resume on ERP itself. So yeah, put your efforts into making a good CV, apply for the companies, brush up the basic things that you need to know for the company, your seniors will guide you through that process. For example, if you are applying for Bajaj Auto, talk to the seniors who have recently done their internship at Bajaj Auto, they'll help you which subjects you need to prepare or whatever you need to brush up for the interview. Give the best shot. Even if you are like not able to make it for a core company on CDC, you do have this off-campus gates open for the core companies as Soumyajit rightly mentioned. go through your seniors profiles or get the companies like make a list of target companies which may possibly hire off campus then like make a mail body according to the company mail the right point of contacts or you can also apply through their career portals or you sometimes find the opportunities here and there. You just need to keep your eyes wide open for the core opportunities. Apart from the core corporate internships, so if you are interested in core, applying for research internships is another great option you do have. My tax is one great thing which you can do if you are interested in core. So for the people who doesn't know what my tax is i think so much it will give so much it can you step in here and give the fund of my tax uh so how the application process and all will be i think you have a better idea about that yeah so i i will I'm also not an expert but yeah i will tell you whatever i do so it's like these are research internships okay and core and research internship they are like very near okay and there are many actually such programs you know about the dad wise program my tax is there EPFL is there okay so in this these are like posted by the universities like the EPFL university okay and they take internships and the success rate is quite good so if you have good uh knowledge about your core you may you will get selected okay and these are very much value adding to your cv the next year when you sit for placement and everything it will be very uh like uh helping and like the selection process it's like you have to apply in their portal okay the deadline will be there fill up everything there will be one sop your cv lor will be there that is very important in research internship you have to contact your professors uh to give some LOR (letter of recommendation) okay and all these things and then they will take your interview and it will proceed okay but in dad wise remember one thing so dad wise is the kind of program where you have to find your German professor it is only for Germany so you will select your professor from other means and tell the professor that okay my funding will be done by this dad wise okay so when you are applying in dad wise at that time you should have a professor of Germany that is one mistake that many people do they don't know that okay i should have contact the professor by myself okay so first contact the professor well before at least like two months before the DADwise deadline then apply in that wise okay yeah these are the things yeah so like everyone if you are interested in core or like aligned towards research, like make note of these two prominent names, which are MITAC GRI and DADwise. And then like these are some easy way out. Like many people, since I have said like core opportunities are less, you may or may not end up having a corporate core intern at your hand by the end of your say third year or fourth year but then like these are some valued really renowned opportunities that you have at hand that doing a really good research internship at a really renowned university across the world. And now talking about the non-core opportunities, you do have a lot of companies that visit the campus through CDC drive, which are like software profile or data science profile, or some companies do visit and finance profile, consult profile, product and business analyst roles. Again, for these companies, keep your CV ready, brush up with your preparation and don't leave any stone unturned. Be it your preparation or your HR preparation or your communication skills, the way you present yourself, everything. skills, the way you present yourself, everything. Just be cool and come and give your best shot in the campus, right, to get that CDC offer, which is way more secure. Even if you are unable to make it through CDC, again, for the non-circular departments, it may be a bit difficult to get an offer through CDC, since you need to clear the cutoffs like CGPA cutoff and some companies are not open for non-circular departments and all. Then you do have this resort, the off-campus resort which is being presented on the screen. Again, Soumyajit has told the most powerful hack, the seniors, LinkedIn stalking. So I like LinkedIn stalking has proved itself the most powerful over the years stalk your seniors profiles like where they have done off-campus internships try to get contacts from them or you can it's a very easy thing that you can do if you are willing to explore or do really something good in software is apply for startups which are like really fast-paced environment like you get to work in the start fast-paced environment and the success rate will be high when compared to MNCs off-campus hiring startups off-campus hiring is rather more successful so you can apply in the startups through your cold mailing so prepare a really good mail body like you can make like make slight changes when it is moving from company to company have a good cv have a good cover letter like you can mail the HRs or the like if it is an early stage startup pre-seed startup or seed startup you can mail the founding team they like if your profile is impressive they will take into the startup then company portals for top MNCs yeah i think we have covered company portals research programs and then alumni connections also two to three years seniors like or people who have graduated at least like two years uh before they can give you a referral and the companies the really like the people who are really freshers yeah they can uh refer you the entry-level roles but for high-level roles like at least like two years experience will help with their referral and then internship platforms like LinkedIn, Indeed, Internshala yeah like what here there is another hack if you come across some opportunity on LinkedIn or Internshala internship or indeed you will see that there are already more than 200 applicants or 150 plus applicants how will you actually get noted in that 150 plus applicants to 200 applicants obviously you will apply through LinkedIn through that easy apply thing or something. But make a note of that company. For example, it is ABC startup has posted for, say, some finance intern. So make a note of that company, like skim through that company's LinkedIn page. Find out the people in their talent acquisition team and try to mail them your CV cover letter and like your profile so this can improve your chances because these platforms or the job posts over there will let you know okay this company is having an opening that will match your interest so now it is your way like how will you get yourself into the eyes of the recruiter do apply through the portal but at the same time like since there is an opening go and try to mail them as well try to get into the eyes of the recruiter as rightly mentioned when you land up at the interview for the off-campus internships yeah it is quite probable that you will land up with an offer at hand if you perform decently. Then personal contacts you can keep talking to your seniors like if you are to explore your interest when you find your niche profile which you are in. So you can talk to them with the previous internships they have done, get the contacts and all, which was already discussed. I think these are different ways to apply for internships. And on top of everything, what actually matters, which is like another layer, you will obviously try all these ways. Another layer is your time so many people they do delay it till say March or April then the deadline like actually comes near so now you have your summer internship from me and then you realize in March or April that you don't have an offer at hand so you will have that pressure on you which is like okay I need to crack it within two months. So then you need to update your CV quickly or like start making your mail body, cover letter, mail gathering contacts, mailing HRs. So that will be a really great hustle in the month of March and April where you do have these holidays or and some examinations on your head what I say is be early in the race try to do it as early as possible so that will help you like be like schedule the things accordingly that will help you be very free and comfortable so if you are able to schedule the things or plan the things and if you are able to pull out according to the schedule so that will actually help you that is what at least I used to do so during my third year and fourth year when I was trying for off-campus internships I used to like make certain schedule for myself okay for the winter internship I'll start my applications at this timeline if there is if there are some research programs that I want to apply like ISB they have this center for analytical finance their applications close by the end of September for winter internship so I used to put everything in an excel sheet okay these are the. So I used to put everything in an excel sheet. Okay, these are the opportunities that I want to make. This is the thing I'll do in August. These are the things I'll do in September. And then in October, you do get this Durga Puja vacation. So what will I do in Durga Puja vacation? Is it some upskilling thing? Or should I update my CV at that time? Or should I gather more contacts, talk to some seniors? So that is like some special schedule for Durga Puja vacation. And then these are the things I'll do for November. And all these things to land up an offer for December, which is like winter internship. And then again, like you will start your schedule afresh from January for your summer internship. These are the things I'll do in Jan, Feb, March. And you should have an offer ultimately at your hand by the end of April. So try to plan the things and try to put your efforts and your seniors will always be there to help you to catalyze the process. I think that's it from my end. to catalyze the process. I think that's it from my end. I was great, thank you. So these are some extensions that can use for cold mailing. And yes, do not forget to put your signature at the end. So moving ahead. Let us get the idea about what can be best with CV. What is to be included and what is prioritized? So Soumyajit would you like to begin? Uh yeah. So while making the CV right, so I'll specifically talk about the SDE and quant and data analytics profiles okay uh so let's say for SDE your most important uh like sections are your internships and projects okay those are the most heavy things if they see that you have two internships or two projects like it is really impressive okay if you don't have projects you can do self projects okay like you in Udemy or any other platform you can find many courses on a cell projects follow that course and implement everything like you will just write your code by seeing the course only and then for certificate you can contact any professor that so your professor that okay i have did this things can you just give me a written certificate or kind of thing okay so that will help now as i mentioned the focus most on intensive and project thing okay now another confusion thing is the ordering of the sections okay so you decide for yourself that which are the sections that are more most strong for you okay first one should be the internships then the project or intensive plan project the club one but next after that let's there is a por there is extra academic activity there is awards so those things you sort according to your strength like for SD there is not much work of POR. OK, so that is there. OK, maybe for consultancy, the POR should come at the top. OK, those things you have to select for yourself. OK. Yeah. And other things I will talk in do's and don'ts. OK, that's it for now. OK, so I'll take on a little bit for consult CV. I think for a consult CV, you need to have certain spikes. Your spikes can be your exemplary leadership roles that you might have taken during your college, be it like anything. So any position that you might have taken during your college be it like anything so any position that you might have held during the college which is noteworthy and where you have showcased your leadership skills or any achievement in sports and games social and cultural technology like be it some national level international level or inter-IIT level so that will be considered as a spike as well so academic your CGPA which is a cut off so that is that matters as well and talking to your internships and projects if you are having a really good internship in a renowned firm or a famous university so those will be considered as spikes as well this concept of spikes and consult shortlist because for a consult profile your cv is your ticket to the interview round because if you are not getting a cv shortlist then you are like not into the game anymore. So CV plays a very crucial role. You need to put in as much time and efforts you can put into your CV to give the best version of yourself because it is really important how you are going to put your entire three years or four years of your college life into that CV. Prioritize things. So if you are having a really good PR, which will make you stand out from the crowd, put PR section at the top. Like no one will stop you from putting PR section at the top. And cHRonology will not matter in consult CVs. So generally there is a notion that you need to put the recent internship at the top, a recent project at the top, recent PR at the top. That doesn't matter. If you're having a really great PR, like put it at the top. If you're having a really great project that you did at the end of your second year in say some foreign university at the end of your third year, put it at the top. There was a senior of mine who had this inter-IIT achievement, inter-IIT, some two or three gold inter-IIT in a single year. He has, in fact, put that on the top of his CV even before the education column. He has taken that risk and the interviewer actually asked him why did he put that on the top even like not putting his department CGPA on the top, like prioritizing this over that. So then his answer is he just wanted to leave no stone unturned to make that shortlist. It is that spike of him which he felt will give him a shortlist, but not his CGP or not his department. So that's what made him put it at the top that shows his enthusiasm or the eagerness to get that shortlist. So you are the one who will present your CV to the interviewer who will defend your CV to the interviewer, who will defend your CV to the interviewer. So whatever the actions you are going to take in your CV. So it is that one page that you are going to have. Use it wisely. And like for whatever the things or whatever the order you are putting. So be confident. Have that really well framed reasoning why you are doing certain things if you are mentioning internships at the top so you need to be ready for the answer why internships at the top or like why PRs at the top so I think that pretty much sums up about consult CV it is the concept of spikes where you need to highlight all your top most achievements during your college and that will land you with a consult CV shortlist. Thank you panelists that was really helpful. We also have a blog regarding the same by Mr. Divyam Sharma. We highly recommend our audience to explore this content at your convenience. Will be putting the link in the chat box. Now we would like to hear from the panelists regarding the importance of CV, the weightage that should be given to each section and the role of vocabulary and do's and don'ts in making the CV stand out. Devaki, would you like to start with giving your suggestions for consulting and product profiles? Okay, so I think like I just defined up some set of things for the CV. I'll add upon like a couple of points. So your CV should be first thing impact driven. CV should be first thing impact driven. Try to focus on the impact you have created during anything that you have done. So be it the position of responsibility that you might have held during college, what the value you have added to that organization or society, what is the impact you have created or during an internship rather than focusing on I have used this technology or this technology that might help you in the software field. Like for your software CV, you might you might need to have all these technologies on your CV. But for a consultant management CV that I am specifically going to talk about, it should be impact driven. Try to focus upon how the work you have done has added value to the firm. For example, you might have made a landing page to the website, which might have increased the click rate by say XX percentage. So that is the impact you have created, or that might have increased the revenue by xx percentage or might have increased the sales by xx percentage so try to focus on the impact everywhere so first thing like to make note of is cv should be impact driven and second one is you need to show your consistency so consistency means like how you have put yourself right from your first year so your profile like okay this is my journey of first year first year have been involved in this extra curricular things or you will say that pr section that ears will show that okay the person is involved at these places in the first year at the end of second year you need to have either an internship or project which shows okay your CV is having something from your second year as well and third year some PRs or projects internships okay that covers your third year as well, and fourth year as well. So, and your CGPA and all these things, they do show the consistency that you have maintained. So, apart from impact, the second thing that you need to really concentrate is the consistency. Apart from this meaning of consistency, there is another meaning as well which you need to like maintain that constant thing during the cv like for example if you are using ampersand for and in your cv keep it constant throughout if you are using a spelling l-a-k-h for lakh at one place keep it constant throughout your cv while whenever you are mentioning some amounts if you are using million at a place keep it constant throughout your cv while whenever you're mentioning some amounts if you are using million at a place then use million throughout the cv so whatever you are the terms you are using keep it constant so for example at one place i have mentioned that i have handled a budget of say one lakh then like at another place also i'll mention okay i have helped the company to improve their sales by two lakhs it is not like i have mentioned one lakh at other place and at the second place i have used 0.2 million so try to have that consistency as well which will help you. And then talking about this vocabulary and all, use this action verbs, like not using this same words, like worked on, developed. So people generally use the same verbs for almost every line in their CV. Yeah, as it is presented on the screen, we do have this set of verbs which will help you enhance your CV. This vocabulary is something if you have made your CV some say on a scale of 10 your CV is looking some 7 or 7.5 a good vocabulary will make your CV stand out. vocabulary will make your CV stand out. It will help you to increase that rating by say one or 1.5. So why leaving that behind when you can actually do with the help of these beautiful verbs. And talking about the platform where you need to make your CV, I think for the campus internships and placements, you do have this ERP portal where you can make your cv or else you do have these portals like overleaf which i used to prefer generally like it is a good platform where you can adjust the spacings and all accordingly so have keep yourself like habituated for how overleaf right from your second year or like the first cv that i have made was on overlay so i always used to try new templates on overlay used to update my cv regularly updating cv regularly is a really good habit one should have because during your college life the first cv you make and the final cv you make for your placements will have a lot of difference many things keep on adding so we make yourself a habit of updating your cv i think this is the standard format that they have mentioned personal details objective educational details scholastic achievements coursework skills work experience projects extracurricular. So for a consult or management thing, you can follow any order, have an impact driven CV, show your consistency throughout, use good action verbs and good vocabulary and use it like you can make on good platforms like Overleaf. I think I have pretty much covered everything related to CBA. Thank you Devaki that was really insightful. Soumyajit please take over with the software part now. Yeah so please go to the do's and don'ts section that's right. Yeah so specifically talking about SDE so while selecting for the test right so you are short testing for the text at that time a big MNC's they don't read your CV manually okay they run some like they have their portals and that will extract all the keywords from your CV automatically okay so in that case you have to remember that you have to extract all the keywords from your cv automatically okay so in that case you have to remember that you have to include all the keywords okay so this happened to me that i have made all the whole cv for my SDE role in my intensive and then i realized that i have not included the term data structural algorithm in my cv can you can i just imagine that cv will never be accepted in any MNC you have to include those terms you can either include in the skills and that skill section or let's say if you're applying for a data analytics role you have to include machine learning deep learning uh those terms okay so many times it happens that okay I'm not very confident in deep learning so i write that you have to include that word maybe you can write that okay a beginner level or intermediate level but that's what has to be there other will you'll not be shortlisted for the test okay that is there okay so in the do's and don'ts if like i request the audience to read this page carefully okay so use tables format should be nine to ten okay provide contact details okay use at least 75 five percent of each line okay so that means so you have to cover the whole line okay don't like if right up to the half and the other half is blank okay that should not happen in fact i would not say it's 75 percent i took over 90 percent okay that will look even uh good okay uh okay so other things uh yeah many times uh we forget to write our own achievements okay they are a very small achievement you sit and remember okay maybe in your school days you did some uh workshop or some project write that as well your NSS or NCC that you have done your JEE rank or KVPY rank okay write all those things okay if you have department change or anything okay your department rank everything okay just remember everything and include that in the in your cd uh okay start the action words so Devaki already told okay uh yeah okay just let me see yeah so another thing is that in HD profile while interview okay in interview in big MNCs they also don't read your uh CV that much okay they just have a look at your CV and just look that if it's looking good or not, it would seem that you have done much work or not. They're not going to read your projects line by line. Okay. Maximum question that can have is that, okay, I can see this project in your CV. Can you just explain me the project? That is the question you will get. Okay. Now in data science, the case is actually opposite. data science they don't ask you so in sd what will happen they will just throw you some data structure algorithm questions if you can solve it good enough otherwise you are not selected okay it may sound rude but that is the case okay in data analytics the case is opposite they will not ask any thing randomly okay they will go through your cv okay so by data analytics i mean the companies like Microsoft data analytics okay Mastercard adobe those who have the data analytics rule okay say they will go through your cv and they will only ask the question from your cv and they will drill you a lot okay so it's like if you have written let's say uh RNN inside deep neural network they will ask you what is RNN okay and how it works and if you have used in that project like this what if you change this parameter like that how do you think that the accuracy would increase okay all this drilling question will come in the data analytics profile the machine learning or deep learning profile okay that should keep in mind and also remember to bold the numbers or any framework particular framework that you have used let's say you use that mongolian database or anything that is important thing you make that bold so you can see in my cv also okay those things yeah and don't just read the don'ts also. And do not do any spelling mistake or those kinds of mistakes in your CV that is really bad to use grammarly for that. Yeah, those are the things you are passive do not like writing passive voice. Those are the things that thank you Soumyajit now moving ahead panelists can you please share some important tips and hacks to be followed to ace an interview Soumyajit please go ahead yeah so for the interview i already talked a little bit uh for those things yeah so as i told you in uh SDE roles only the DSA questions will matter okay so there are some topics also which are specifically interview development say uh the LinkedIn link list okay and uh object oriented programming oops okay those are the things uh which are interview specific they are not asking normal coding questions okay i told you about the the data analytics thing okay yeah so there are some companies which may ask from your cv in sd rule also like i had in my squarepoint interview they asked me from a git and github something okay that how git is working it was written in my cv that's why okay create series also asked me so my intern was in field swiss so in case they just asked me to explain one project okay that is the maximum thing you have to now tell even they did not do any cross question also another important thing is that while solving a coding questions okay so let's say interviewer asked you the question and now you are thinking so if you know how it works that it it will take minimum two to three minutes to think about the solution approach but you cannot be silent for two to three minutes in the interview so that is called you have to think loudly. Whatever you are thinking, tell that. Okay, so I am thinking that okay, I can take this variable and I can do this thing with the array and that thing. If you let's say go in the wrong path also, tell that okay, I think no, this solution will not approach. Let me go back and try something else so you have to continuously keep speaking otherwise you will not be not get let's say you are silent for three four minute and then you come up with a solution okay now i get the solution this is the solution that will not help okay and in the HFTs (High Frequency Trading) okay so that will be there in the day one and the first half in the HFTs they don't expect you even to solve the question. Okay. These are some inside information I'm telling you. Okay. So those who have done the internship, they ask their like teammates that, okay, you asked me this question. Did you even expect me to solve this? Because this is damn difficult. One cannot solve that. Okay. I told you, no, I, I did not expect that you will solve it i just wanted to see your approach so in that case you have to try hard that whatever you are thinking tell that to your interviewer and he will give many uh like hints also to you and he wants that that by taking the hints you go forward okay so these are the things to keep in mind okay other than that i would like to know that if the interview is uh going to be offline or online this time you know maybe someone can let me know in the chat okay because that is pretty different like in offline you have to take care of many things you have to have foods with you because you have to be there for 12 hours okay and ask some of your friends that to check the meals okay because every now and then companies will release some extended shortlist okay and maybe you miss some shortlist you will not go to that company that is a big loss so ask your three to four friend at least that check my name uh in every email okay check my name uh in every email okay uh yeah i think those are the things uh yeah another thing is about the HR questions okay uh so there are seven to eight common HR questions asked in the SDE rules like prepare them beforehand let's say they ask you about your weakness it's not that you'll start actually telling your witness okay that i cannot do teamwork don't tell that okay they are at some framed answer for that tell that only okay those should be prepared uh yeah and while let's say they ask you are you a team worker or not obviously you are gonna say yes but you have to give a proof behind that. OK, like that. Let's say in this project, I work with these four people and this conflict rose and I manage this thing. I took this decision like this with your past experience back your answer. OK. Yeah, those are the things. Thank you, Soumyajit. Devaki would you like to add something yeah i think Soumyajit pretty much covered everything but adding my two cents to like how to ace an interview first and foremost your confidence and communication skills because you might be having a hectic day or you might have given a lot of interviews on say some particular day of your CDC internship drive or placement drive but try to keep yourself energetic calm confident so whatever will keep you calm confident like try to do that like have lots of water or whatever this short break that you would like to take that but be calm and confident during your internship or during your interview sorry so being calm in the sense you need not hurry over the things because sometimes when you are like in a rush so you may fumble with your words that destroys your entire communication so try to keep your mind calm. So be very much consistent with your thoughts. Whatever you're willing to express, try to express it with confidence. And especially for consult interviews, the major thing that everyone would say is keep your interviewer engaged. So as Soumyajit also mentioned. So you need to constantly speak out whatever you're thinking. For example, if you are asked to solve a puzzle during your interview, the actual answer of that puzzle may matter a certain percentage, but your thought process will matter even more in most of the interviews. So try to keep interviewer engaged. Tell him or her how you are thinking. So you can start saying, OK, this is the problem statement. I'm just repeating it to make sure that I got it right. And then you can move ahead saying that, OK okay I'm willing to solve this using these steps then you can take them ahead with your approach keep them engaged during the process which is like really important and talking about like specifically consult interviews the additional brownie points which you can get are through your industry knowledge. Say, for example, you are asked to solve a problem in e-commerce industry. For example, a particular company is facing a decline in sales through their company website or mobile app? How will you solve that? So obviously, you will go ahead with your approach. You will tell the reasons which you might have thought would have decreased the sales of that company. Apart from that, if you're having industry knowledge about the e-commerce industry we'll add you brownie points for example any recent happenings in the e-commerce industry are there any certain government regulations so you can mention that during the interview so i think i have heard of this recent government regulation in India for the e-commerce industry or recent changes in BNPL so the cards and all like NBFCs so I think this recent change in the banking sector might have impacted the customers sales online and all so if you are adding this kind of points during your interview that gives the interviewer an impression that you are pretty much updated with the industry knowledge. So now how can you get that industry knowledge because in consult interviews yes your industry knowledge will add brownie points. So how to get that is very simple. Keep yourself thorough with some blogs or podcasts. You do have this famous blogs or podcasts from the Ken or the FinShots and all, which many people regularly follow. So you can keep yourself regularly updated through any blogs and podcasts if you are a podcast person like you can listen to podcasts on a regular basis or you can read the blogs when you are having that time in between your classes or in between any activities you can read through the blogs but yeah this will surely help you to ace your interview especially consult interview having that industry knowledge and don't ever hurry in your interview even if you have made a mistake it's fine i remember i think like i have attended a panel discussion of similar sort where the person had mentioned me. So it was an offline interview. The person was asked to solve some puzzle. After a certain point, the person understood that he has taken a completely wrong approach. So what he has told the interviewer is, so I think I have taken a wrong approach. Can I just turn the page and start it afresh so that is kind of this supportive spirit the person has shown he understood that he has made a mistake but he did not give up over there and the person has actually told that the interviewer was pretty much impressed. How the person was agile to start afresh when he realized his mistake himself. So having that presence of mind throughout your interview will help you a lot. I think the major points are confidence, communication skills, industry knowledge, and having that presence of mind throughout the interview will help you ace consult interviews or any management interviews in general yeah i think even these things using stories or tell about yourself so yeah i think every interview starts with your introduction so that is something you shouldn't mess up at any cost you must be confident with your own introduction so have that like really well prepared and so much it pretty much helped you all with the HR questions how to answer about your strengths weaknesses and all and be very confident with your cv every project that is there on your cv every internship that is there on your cv and every point of your PORs and all try to use small stories in between whatever you have done during your internship or certain position of responsibility how you have handled certain things and all these are all the tricks to keep the interviewer engaged or just to showcase your communication skills and all yeah i think that's pretty much about that uh thank you Devaki, for those one minute so I'd just like to add uh two three tips here so this is about the on-campus interview okay about the CDC interview okay so try to enter in the interview hall first like as early as possible okay so let's say there are 10 students and try to enter in the top five or so okay because the ordering actually matters in SDE or quant these rules because if the company sees that okay this i am liking this student okay he came first so they try to confirm them because that student may go to some other company and some other company can give him the offer first so if you know the process uh if one student get the offer first he'll be locked at that place and he cannot sit in any other uh company so try to fix your interview at the beginning okay and contact with the place comms like each and every time okay let's say uh if you are having interview another company let the place come know okay they will help you okay i saw many students that they don't talk to the place coms okay but that is not the right approach talk to them okay after finishing an interview ask them that am i selected for the second interview what the company people are doing so what happens is that if a company is liking your like skills and everything so they will fix all your interview one after another let's say continue we get three interview and you get the offer that is a common thing we see uh a lot of time okay because the company also sees that okay his first round is over and he's a good student let's call it call him right now only because he should not go to any other place okay so if that is the case you are getting like continuously in your company that is a good sign okay so yeah and keep in touch with the place counts these are the things uh thank you panelists for those crucial details and insights uh moving ahead i request our panelists to guide our janta about the basic screening process for selection in companies. Swamiji, would you like to go ahead? Okay, okay. So I think it's quite clear to you. So first there will be CV shortlisting. As I told you, some CV keywords or there may be some CG shortlisting, okay, or department shortlisting. Those things will be there. After that, those who are shortlisted, they will be asked for a test. In the test, there may be coding questions for SDE or there are some MCQ questions for machine learning and deep learning there are some aptitude questions like you know those puzzles kind of thing and those like reasoning and aptitude questions typically what happens okay uh if you pass those exam then you are asked for the technical interview okay there is no group discussion for SDE or quant or data analytics those profiles you go to the technical round on your day one or day two or day three whatever okay then usually there are three to four round of interview like we including the HR interview so other than the HR interview there will be two round or three round okay after that there will be the HR interview and most of the case the HR interviewing is of just a casual interview okay for is d rules or these rules because that actually does not matter so if you are going to the HR interview actually you got the offer that's why you are. That is just a formality. That is the typical line for these things. Thank you, Swamiji. Devaki, would you like to add any insights to this? Yeah, so I think for the consult, it was a bit different. Also, the first round will be like CV submission and CV shortlisting. So once they release the people who are shortlisted based on their CV, as I have previously mentioned, for consult, CV is your token for your interviews or the ticket for your interviews. So you need to have a really impressive CV to make that cut in the cv shortlist which is really crucial for consult profiles so after that your buddy rounds will start buddies are someone from the firm so at BCG when i had my buddy rounds both my buddies are from IIT Kharagpur itself so they were from IITKGP so both of them so buddies are basically people who are working at BCG. And luckily both of my buddies were alumni of KGP itself. So as the case with most of the other shortlisted people, both of their buddies are alumni of KGP. For some people, it may be non-KGP as well. or alum of KGP. For some people, it may be non-KGP as well. Buddy rounds will be evaluative sometimes or sometimes non-evaluative. Last year, it was non-evaluative. So, buddies will help you understand the company, how the company works or what are the major sectors in which the company is currently working, what are the work culture or the timings of the lifestyle at the company everything the buddies is a kind of insider from the company who will help you understand the firm at the same time buddy will also help you the expectations from you like what you will be asked. During your interviews. Is it only puzzles. Guest teammates and cases. Or you will be asked any kind of. HR questions and all. Buddies will help you. How your rounds are going to be. How many interview rounds. Or when is the interview. Buddies will help you with the interview processes as well. They will give you the idea. And they will tell you clearly. what is the expectation from you, what they are expecting from you. At the same time, bodies also will help you in your preparation. They will help you in your case preparation. They will take your cases. They'll make you do guesstimates and all. do guesstimates and all so this after this body round you'll have the final d day that is the interview day where you'll typically have uh as Soumyajit mentioned like if you are clearing the rounds quickly like you will be moved to the rounds so at consult firms you do have this first round of with a project leader pl round after you clear that you immediately you will be immediately moved to a principal round once clear that, you will be immediately moved to a principal round. Once you clear that, you will be immediately moved to the partner round. If you clear that, immediately your offer will be rolled out. So that is, in general, the process at consult firms. I've been communicating, I do have a lot of blogs on the process of consult interviews and all with the name CQ consult talks. Yeah, I think that will also give a fair idea about the processes at consult firms. Thank you, Devaki, for your valuable advice. So as CDC is a very important part to give a head start to one's career, it brings with it a lot of tension among the preparing students. So panelists, can you give some tips to our Janata on handling the CDC stress? Devaki, would you like to begin? Okay. So this is like pretty common scenario with KGP CDC process is approaching when you're having the day one nearby you will have that tension because the cv deadlines and all will be near i think for this CDC thing so much it can guide the janta better because in my personal case i haven't appeared for even CDC internships and CDC placements though i have seen my friends uh very near because like my internships and placement was also bcg so conducted their process of campus last year so but still like we do have this thing on campus that people like think that CDC is everything but you need not like worry a lot about CDC process and all just be chill give your give your best prepare well as this session, we have been telling that. Be thorough with your preparation. Be thorough with your CV. Be thorough with your HR prep or whatever the puzzles and all you do. Everything. Be thorough with everything. So be well with your prep. Give your best shot on whatever day one, day two and all. Even if you're not getting into it. it yeah i think this workshop has given a fair idea about all the off-campus opportunities the CDC is not just the only thing you have the doors and windows wide open into a much bigger world but it is as the word says it is a bigger world it will be kind of tough for you to find the right opportunity but you have a lot of opportunities outside those doors and windows you just need to move outside those windows and doors you need to explore the. Get your right opportunities. You do have beautiful opportunities. In the world outside. So just chill. But one thing that I would add is. Have that timeline. Or regular targets for yourself. And keep working regularly. To have that progress. Or to improve your efficiency. That will help you. Just be stress free. Peace is something. In KGP language.. SPEAKER 1- Soumyajit, would you like to add anything? SPEAKER 2- Yeah, yeah. This is a pretty interesting question. So this is very natural. You will be very much stressed. You will have fear while the interview, you will be selected or not, and many more things. The schedule will be very much packed. You have two, three exams on the same day, and that will continue for one or one and a half month right so that is pretty common so one advice i can give you that make good friends okay have some friends who are sitting with you in the CDC process and have some friends who are not sitting this year CDC that is also important you know why I'll tell you so for the exams and everything for the meals what is coming for those things you need the students who are giving the CDC but the maximum stress comes when let's say your friends are getting the offers but you are not getting the offer that time it is really a very bad situation okay that time you cannot talk to you will not have the interest to talk to those friends who got the offer because that is a awkward situation okay and he may not be may not have the sympathy to talk to you also okay usually they got the offer and people start chilling okay usually that is the case so have some friends either who will sit next year if you are a four year student talk to they have something for five years okay those things okay and if the as this is the intensive that is a good news you got the placement is yet to be there okay you are fighting for the internships okay that will definitely help you in the placement because the process is more or less the same okay if it is so many students take it like that okay so i will not sit for the intensive i will not take it that much uh yeah i will take it casually okay because it is not the placement i will get some project here and there with some professor yeah that is true if you don't get from CDC you can have you can already always apply some professor and get some summer project okay but give your 100 here also that will help you in placement you will not be in a bad situation placement other the trace of placement will be much higher than this intensive okay so yeah that those are the few things okay so if you mess up in the internships also you have the placement keep in mind and don't panic okay if you panic your performance will go down only you have to keep your mind down yeah thank you panelists for those excellent suggestions this will surely help our audience handle the stress that comes before the internships with everyone preparing hard for CDC, there is a possibility that one may fail to get an internship. So, panelists, what would be your advice to them? Swamiji, would you like to start? Yeah, so already discussed about those off-campus opportunities, right? In HD roles, these referrals and every other kind of thing try those things okay uh otherwise try in some university under some professors usually they provide you like that is the last option like in Kharagpur also some professor will give you or some foreign university some remote project that will also uh like be there like you have to do this compulsory intensive right that will work there also okay those are the things you can do yeah i think for this question i have also answered that you just need to step out and start exploring the options you will find the right option sooner or later here or there but just be patient and you will find the opportunity and again like other point to add here is internships are not just everything you can have projects self projects or work in some startup roles everything will count. So that is because I have seen many people being stressed out a lot for internships. Like if they are not getting on campus internship, people are very stressed out to bargain off campus internship. For people, like even after cold mailing or applying on multiple job positions on LinkedIn, internship, it is not working. They are not getting off. They are stressed out. You may not stress out a lot regarding your internship. As Soumyajit mentioned, you can do your compulsory internship anywhere. If not in any firm, you can do a project simply under a prop, but be focused on your placements. So why we say or like focus a lot about internships or projects is it will help you explore different fields if you do an internship and say ml data science or consult internship or product internship that will give you a basic essence of the workplace will help you understand how the profile is going to look like and all that will help you decide your profile in a much better way with a much better understanding even if you don't have an internship or project but if you are still clear so just be focused with that do your placement prep well and you do have like really lot of good placement opportunities at IIT Kharagpur so don't be really stressed out for internship opportunities it is not actually everything keep yourself upskilled like do courses regularly or do projects regularly keep yourself engaged in some academic things extra academic things career oriented things i think these three are the major tracks yeah these are the courses these are the platforms from which you can do courses Coursera NPTEL Udemy upgrade also have like really good courses and all you can do the courses and keep regularly upgrading yourself or upskilling yourself apart from that keep doing some projects so that will help you a lot and i think the other thing that i was saying is three major tracks this is for the general KGP funders you need to be like decent with your academics decent CGPA and good with your extra academics have some extra academic engagement which will help you make friends or like having that confidence to speak uh in the public and all and then corporate exposure which is like internships and projects maintain a perfect balance among these three like keep yourself continuously engaged with something i think that keeps you quite stress free. Thank you panelists for your motivating words. Now it's time to take up questions from the audience. So audience, if anyone has any queries, please write it in the chat box. see in between another thing i would like to add how much questions yes but if you are not getting the intensive or if you are getting the intensive do not stop the coding okay because coding actually comes from practice if you are getting the intensive do not stop the coding okay because coding actually comes from practice if you are not you have stopped coding for two months believe me will not be able to solve the simple questions that you were fluent about okay so keep in at least the other way to keep yourself really stress-free from all this internship and all things is keeping yourself busy with the activities i feel so as long as you're told one can keep themselves busy with coding then you do have these classes, labs or writing lab reports. And then people have this NCC, NSS, NSO. Or you do have these hall activities, ELU. Or then in the spring semester, you have Springfest, Kshitij or the holidays. One thing or the other, you'll be continuously busy. But at the same time, you need to take out certain time for your off-campus applications and all. I think this webinar was mostly focused on that part also in the very beginning, how to ace an off-campus internship and all. Thank you very much. Audience chat box is open. You can post your queries. Thank you. I think meanwhile we can have something that I wanted to add at a certain point of this entire workshop so that is may in many interviews you face this question at the end that, do you have any questions for us? And many people feel that like that can have importance in many interviews. So I'll add the consult or management perspective to this question. And I think Soumyajit will help us in getting the perspective from software. and getting the perspective from software. In consult interviews, especially when the interviewer asks you, like, do you have any questions for me? At least I'll tell you a story from my final round at BCG. So after my final round, I thought that I pretty much messed up the round because that was a really tough question which interviewer had asked me he just started the interview in a very chill mode he was the managing director and partner at the firm he was like in between he was like tell me the thick answer what is was like tell me the thick answer what happens, tell me the thick answer how can I because interviews will put that pressure on you they just want you to break out, he just wanted me to okay I will put so much pressure that she will just break out and she will say some random answer from her mouth. He was constantly pushing me. Okay, Devaki, you're going good. So tell me like from your calculation. I was still doing my calculation and he was just asking me. But still I was like, okay, I'm just doing this. I was just keeping him engaged I'm in between my calculation I'm doing this calculation this is the answer I got I think the rough answer would be around this and then I felt like that was like really tough and unconventional case which he asked me I thought that I messed up and he asked like the same case to people other people as well but at the end of the interview when he asked me okay any other questions for me i asked him which field are you or which industry are you working in because in concept like people work with different industries so interestingly he told me that he is working with one of the major steel clients. So steel industry clients of BCG in India. So I have just asked him since I hail from geology department, asked him what are the challenges that he face in the steel industry. And I remember reading one of the FinShots blogs some days ago that Indian government is going to post some regulations on steel industry. I just added that snippet over there. So I said, so dear interview, I heard that for every ton of steel that is manufactured, so 1.3 ton of carbon dioxide gets released into the environment so government of india is trying to have some regulations on steel industry and then we just had a really great after conversation so i still remember the last round was hardly 20 minutes case interview and 20 minutes we had this after interview session so where i asked him about steel industry i told him that IIT Kharagpur there is a professor who works on the steel free constructions because steel is majorly used in constructions and if you see all these security booths which we have in front of every hall right where that gate sits all these booths are steel free construction we don't have any steel in that and that is a project developed by a professor of IIT Kharagpur and I also know that he currently he has a patent for only one floor and that professor is working on two storied buildings two storage steel buildings I added all these points with which he was pretty much impressed and then he asked me the other things about my college life and all so that's how the interview ended really well from a bad note uh so yeah i think this is some general questions or how your industry knowledge will help you is that question of any questions for me at the end of consult interviews. Thank you. That was very insightful. We have one question from the audience. This is asked by Ankit. He's asking how to explore your interest. Should we give two to three months for different areas please anyone would like to take up the question yeah i would like to answer the question and also add something to this point uh so first like the wiki talked about the questions that it is it is everywhere asked okay at the end of the interview that do you have any question for us and that is pretty uh important thing actually and we missed that in that thing so some few questions like that will be asked after each round okay and some few questions like that will be asked after each round okay and some common questions in SDE maybe okay what are the framework that you are working on what type of project are you building okay and so i will also explain you one of my situations so this happened in uh their square point okay i was giving the interview for the SDE role okay and it happened that so there are few time left to end the interview the time was like my interview actually ended early so we were just randomly talking i asked him that what are you working on he told me okay I'm working on python this and that thing and he started explaining me many thing i also found interest and questioning about different thing and different things so it is like kind of like i was also asking okay where is your office or how is the environment there and many informal talks are going on okay so that and that is a good sign okay if you are getting friendly with the interviewer that is the best thing okay and at least he will give you a positive uh marks uh in that interview that you can be seen okay that is a big plus point another is that yeah about the question okay so how would you explore so if you are in your first year or second year so often i have seen that you do not need to consciously put some effort okay so in Kharagpur so there is this vast opportunity available okay in cities you have this coding contest case studies okay there will be some friend of yours will come to you and say that okay I'm participating in this case study would you like to come with me or in this hackathon would you like to come with me or I'm going the selection of this society come let's do together just like participate in those events that is enough and get the get the flavor of each and every profiles okay you like don't need to divide those two three months for different things just be conscious and participate in wherever you can yeah adding my two cents to it i think nowadays we have got a lot of this virtual experience programs and all which will like if you are really not having time at hand because time is everything if you are in your first year you can surely give two to three months you can explore like after doing some machine learning course, you can try for an intern, an ML or explore the field of data science and all, you will have time at hand to give to every area if you're in your first or second year. If you're in your third or fourth year, you will not actually have a lot of time at hand. Now that college is being like completely offline classes labs and all will not actually allow you to do a full-time offline internship and all or even remote internships can become difficult at times so you can try to do these winter internships and explore the fields of like especially management you can do some product in turn or if you are willing to explore the VC firms investments investment banking like you can try to explore all this through your internships or the word sort experience programs or the competitions so many competitions you do have like especially for the VC firms you need to prepare the pitch decks or the investment decks which will help you explore the field so it is not mandatorily two to three months are required to explore different areas it depends certain areas do require a lot of time you need to give in but certain areas can be easily explored without actually giving much time into it yeah thank you panelists i think that clears all your doubts so if there's no more questions from the side of audience, we could go on to wrap up this panel discussion. Now, as we come to the end of today's panel discussion, I would like to thank all our esteemed panelists for sparing their precious time today for guiding us through this discussion and also sharing their experiences and giving us valuable insights. I hope this discussion and also sharing their experiences and giving us valuable insights. I hope this discussion will surely benefit the students for the CV building and application of internships. Thank you very much. We also extend our heartfelt gratitude to our amazing Janta for making this session a truly captivating and dynamic experience. Your enthusiastic participation has made it a great experience. As we conclude this session, we bid you farewell and encourage you to carry the valuable insights gained here into your future endeavors. Until we meet again, we wish you a wonderful day filled with endless possibilities. Thank you.